human and what is the impact of licensing on the pattern of innovation and the consequent evolution of industry costs and market structure? the authors explore both the effects of trade in the market for information on technology and the gains from such trade and obtain the following results. licensing tends to stimulate innovation when the industry variation in costs is low, and leads to less innovation and possibly higher market prices when costs are asymmetric. equivalently, licensing reduces innovation in a concentrated industry and increases innovation in an unconcentrated industry. licensing contracts may stipulate royalty rates less than the cost advantage of the licensor. the mechanism by which pretreatment with gonadotropin-releasing hormone analogues improves art outcome is uncertain and can be only speculated. however, we can postulate reasonably that ovarian suppression before art augments outcome by correction of endometrial alterations encountered in endometriosis, thus, amplifying receptivity. in support of this hypo thesis, endometrial alterations noted in women with endometriosis disappeared after ovarian sup pres sion with oral contraceptives69 or analogues of gonadotropin-releasing hormone. 70 admittedly, the reduction of nerve bundles recorded in women receiving oral contraceptives does not necessarily indicate that the endometrium truly returns to normal once it proliferates again after discontinuation of oral contraceptives. a potential 5g wireless cellular architecture to address the above challenges and meet the 5g system requirements, we need a dramatic change in the design of cellular architecture. we know that wireless users stay indoors for about 80 percent of time, while only stay ourdoors about 20 percent of the time . the current conventional cellular architecture normally uses an outdoor bs in the middle of a cell communicating with mobile users, no matter whether they stay indoors or outdoors. for indoor users communicating with the outdoor bs, the signals have to go through building walls, and this causes very high penetration loss, which significantly damages the data rate, spectral efficiency, and energy efficiency of wireless transmissions. green communications the design of 5g wireless systems should take into account minimizing the energy consumption in order to achieve greener wireless communication systems . wireless system operators around the world should aim to achieve such energy consumption reductions, which consequently contribute to the reduction of co2 emissions. the indoor communication technologies are promising deployment strategies to get better energy efficiency. this is because of the favorable channel conditions they can offer between the transmitters and receivers. moreover, by separating indoor traffic from outdoor traffic, the marcocell bs will have less pressure in allocating radio resources and can transmit with low power, resulting in a significant reduction in energy consumption. vlc and mm-wave technologies can also be considered as energy efficient wireless communication solutions to be deployed in 5g wireless systems. for example, in vlc systems the consumed energy in one bulb is much less than that in its rf-based equivalents for transmitting the same high-density data. for a complete and fair assessment of 5g wireless systems, more performance metrics should be considered. these include spectral efficiency, energy efficiency, delay, reliability, fairness of users, qos, implementation complexity, and so on. thus, a general framework should be developed to evaluate the performance of 5g wireless systems, taking into account as many performance metrics as possible from different perspectives. there should be a trade-off among all performance metrics. this requires high-complexity joint optimization algorithms and long simulation times. one technical challenge in developing massive mimo systems is the signal processing complexity. as transmit and receive signals are quite lengthy, the search algorithms must be performed over many possible permutations of symbols. in the current literature, massive mimo research is often treated as a detection problem based on a search motivated by the well-known ml criterion. the existing detection algorithms assume that the channel has been perfectly estimated, which appears to be an unreasonable assumption given the size of the channel matrix and thus amount of channels to be tracked. a possible solution to this problem is to apply the sm concept to massive mimo systems. in this case, the spatial signature of each antenna needs to be different from the point of view of the receiver because data is encoded into the choice of transmit antenna active in the transmit array. it is therefore possible that channel estimation does not need to be exact but rather be merely sufficient to distinguish each transmit antenna. some short-range communication technologies, such as wifi, femtocell, vlc, and mm-wave communication technologies, can be seen as promising candidates to provide high-quality and high-data-rate services to indoor users while at the same time reducing the pressure on outdoor bss. we have also discussed some potential key technologies that can be deployed in 5g wireless systems to satisfy the expected performance requirements, such as cr networks, sm, mfemtocells, vlc, and green communications, along with some technical challenges. 2 since the middle of the last century, researchers have explored the potential applications of intelligent techniques in every field of medicine. 3,4 the application of ai technology in the field of surgery was first successively investigated by gunn in 1976, when he explored the possibility of diagnosing acute abdominal pain with computer analysis. 5 the last two decades have seen a surge in the interest in medical ai. there are many different ai techniques available which are capable of solving a variety of clinical problems. however, in spite of earlier optimism, medical ai technology has not been embraced with enthusiasm. one reason for this is the attitude of the clinicians towards technology being used in the decision-making process. paradoxically, there is no qualm in accepting the biochemical results generated from an auto-analyser or images produced by magnetic resonance imaging. however, it is the obligation of researchers active in this field to produce evidence that these techniques work on a practical level. the need to undertake more randomised controlled studies to prove the efficacy of ai systems in medicine is, therefore, vital. for many years, this feature made chaos undesirable, and most experimentalists considered such characteristic as something to be strongly avoided. besides their critical sensitivity to initial conditions, chaotic systems exhibit two other important properties. firstly, there is an in"nite number of unstable periodic orbits embedded in the underlying chaotic set. in other words, the skeleton of a chaotic attractor is a collection of an in"nite number of periodic orbits, each one being unstable. secondly, the dynamics in the chaotic attractor is ergodic, which implies that during its temporal evolution the system ergodically visits small neighborhood of every point in each one of the unstable periodic orbits embedded within the chaotic attractor. it is reasonable to assume that one does not have complete knowledge about the system dynamics since our system is typically complicated and has experimental imperfections. it is better, then, to work in the space of solutions since the equations, even if available, are not too useful due to the sensitivity of the dynamics to perturbations. one gets solutions by obtaining a time series of one dynamically relevant variable. the right perturbation, therefore, to be applied to the system is selected after a learning time, wherein the dependence of the dynamics on some external control is tested experimentally. such perturbation can a! ect either a control parameter of the system, or a state variable. in the former case, a perturbation on some available control parameter is applied, in the latter case a feedback loop is designed on some state variable of the system. among the practically unlimited possible applications of the control of chaotic behavior, herewith we concentrate on two applications, which have attracted considerable attention in the scienti"c community over the past few years; namely the control of chaotic behavior for communicating with chaos and for the synchronization of chaotic systems for various communication schemes. in the "rst case, a chaotic system is conveniently perturbed, in order to give rise to a particular chaotic trajectory carrying a given message. in the second case, the process of chaos synchronization is applied to a communication line between a message sender and a message receiver, allowing the synchronization between them. the control of chaotic behavior has another important application, namely, the synchronization of chaotic systems. if one consider two identical chaotic systems starting from di! erent initial conditions, then the critical sensitivity to initial conditions implies that their di! erence grows exponentially in time, and that they will evolve in an unsynchronized manner. the feeding of the right signal from one system to another can, however, reduce to zero such di! erence, and push the two systems into a synchronized manifold, wherein the chaotic motion is now developed so as the system are in step during the course of time. this proposal was intensively pushed forward at the beginning of this decade . in the present report, we simply summarize a possible application of synchronization of chaos, consisting in making secure the transmission of a signal between a message sender and a receiver along a communication line. the present report is organized as follows. in section 2, the ogy method is illustrated with applications to one-dimensional and two-dimensional mappings. the pole placement technique is then discussed for the control of higher-dimensional situations. in section 3, we discuss alternative schemes for chaos control, and we describe in detail the adaptive strategy with application to delayed dynamical systems, since it constitutes a bridge between concentrated and spatially extended systems. section 4 is devoted to the discussion of the targeting problem. we show how the ogy criterion and adaptivity can provide suitable tools for directing the chaotic trajectories to desired targets. furthermore, we show a possible application for the control of fractal basin boundaries. in section 5, we discuss the issue of stabilizing desirable chaotic trajectories, and we point out two main applications: the communication with chaos, and communication through chaos synchronization. section 6 summarizes the main experimental work in chaos control, and points out the perspective open in di! erent "elds by this process. after the crisis, trajectories wander on the whole combined larger attractor, in such a way that the trajectories visit both parts, which correspond to the original chaotic attractor and the chaotic saddle, in an intermittent fashion. as a consequence, time series recorded from such a trajectory exhibits distinct intermittent chaotic phases. it has been demonstrated that it is possible to keep trajectories in one of the chaotic phases by applying only small parameter perturbations to the system. we remark that similar intermittent chaotic signals also arise in biomedical systems . 7 as such, if one measures the topological entropy of the system as a single parameter changes through the crisis point, one usually "nds that the entropy is a nondecreasing function of the system parameter. for a symbolic dynamics of two symbols observed in typical low-dimensional chaotic systems, the maximum allowed value of the topological entropy, ln 2, is often realized in a parameter regime where there is transient chaos. thus, it is highly desirable to design a chaotic system operating in a transient chaotic regime for digital encoding. in what follows, we "rst develop a theoretical and numerical framework for encoding digital information using transient chaos. we provide numerical evidence that the topological entropies of chaotic saddles are usually greater than those of chaotic attractors. we then detail a procedure for encoding digital messages into trajectories that live on chaotic saddles. we argue that digital encoding with chaotic saddles can be robust against environmental noise, thereby signi"cantly reducing the probability of bit error in encoding. finally, we describe message encoding using two-dimensional symbolic dynamics. by manipulating the symbolic dynamics of a chaotic system in an intelligent way, the system produces trajectories in which digital information is embedded. the methodology reviewed here is within the scope of the second approach. speci"cally, we address the problem of controlling the symbolic dynamics of chaotic systems. we argue, by explicit computation of the topological entropy, that a dynamical system operating in parameter regimes of transient chaos on nonattracting chaotic saddles usually possess a greater information-bearing capability as compared with the same system in regimes of sustained chaos on attractors. we detail a procedure, which is applicable to chaotic systems described by onedimensional maps, to encode digital information into typical trajectories wandering in the vicinity of the chaotic saddle. in the previous section, we have described how the ogy idea can be implemented for the control of chaotic behaviors, with applications to the process of communicating with chaos. here, we show that the adaptive technique introduced for the stabilization of upos can, in fact, be successfully applied to the problem of synchronization of chaos. the process of synchronizing two identical chaotic systems starting from di! erent initial conditions consists in linking the trajectory of one system to the same values as the other so that they remain in step with each other, through the transmission of a signal. the two experiments by azevedo and rezende and ditto et al. , even though realized with di! erent methods, have a common underlying idea, which is that of forbidding large parameter variations in the control procedure. a qualitative change in this framework was performed by hunt in ref. , where the perturbations were allowed to be quite large, thus permitting the control of more complicated periodic behaviors, associated with higher periodic orbits of period as large as 23 times the characteristic oscillation period. g. apprenticeship). situated learning theory enriches the learning space concept by reminding us that learning spaces extend beyond the teacher and the classroom. they include socialization into a wider community of practice that involves membership, identity formation, transitioning from novice to expert through mentorship and experience in the activities of the practice, as well as the reproduction and development of the community of practice itself as newcomers replace old-timers. people who are strong in this stage emphasize thinking as opposed to feeling, a concern with building general theories as opposed to intuitively understanding facts. they enjoy and are good at systematic planning, manipulation of abstract symbols and quantitative analysis; they value precision, the rigor and discipline of analyzing ideas, and the aesthetic quality of a neat, conceptual system. my purpose in translating questions about the psychology of learning into the empirical language of biology was not to replace the logic of psychology or psychoanalysis with the logic of cellular molecular biology, but to try to join these two disciplines and to contribute to a new synthesis that would combine the mentalistic psychology of memory storage with the biology of neuronal signaling. i hoped further that the biological analysis of memory might carry with it an extra bonus, that the study of memory storage might reveal new aspects of neuronal signaling. indeed, this has proven true. to tackle that problem we needed to know how sensory information about a learning task reaches the hippocampus and how information processed by the hippocampus influences behavioral output. this was a formidable challenge, since the hippocampus has a large number of neurons and an immense number of interconnections. it seemed unlikely that we would be able to work out in any reasonable period of time how the neural networks, in which the hippocampus was embedded, participate in behavior and how those networks are affected by learning. such a reductionist approach was hardly new in 20th-century biology. one need only think of the use of drosophila in genetics, of bacteria and bacteriophages in molecular biology, and of the squid giant axon in the study of the conduction of nerve impulses. nevertheless, when it came to the study of behavior, many investigators were reluctant to use a reductionist strategy. in the 1950s and 1960s many biologists and most psychologists believed that learning was the one area of biology in which the use of simple animal models, particularly invertebrate ones, was least likely to succeed. they argued that only higher animals exhibit interesting forms of learning and that these forms require neuronal organizations and neuronal from mechanisms qualitatively different those found in simple animals. whereas the mammalian brain has a trillion central nerve cells, aplysia has only 20,000, and the simplest behaviors that can be modified by learning may directly involve less than 100 central nerve cells. in addition to being few in numbers, these cells are the largest nerve cells in the animal kingdom, reaching up to 1000 mm in diameter, large enough to be seen with the naked eye. one can record from these large cells for many hours without any difficulty, and the same cell can be returned to and recorded from over a period of days. the cells can easily be dissected out for biochemical studies, so that from a single cell one can obtain sufficient mrna to make a cdna library. finally, these identified cells can readily be injected with labeled compounds, antibodies, or genetic constructs, procedures which opened up the molecular study of signal transduction within individual nerve cells. third, an even more persistent synaptic action, lasting days, results from repeated action of a modulatory transmitter such as serotonin. with repeated applications of serotonin, second-messenger kinases translocate to the nucleus, where they activate a cascade of gene induction leading to the growth of new synaptic connections. this of course raises the problem of synapse specificity that we have considered above. our experiments, in the bifurcated culture system, revealed a novel fourth action of neurotransmitters, the marking of the synapse and the regulation of local protein synthesis, which contributes to the establishment of synapsespecific long-term facilitation. i started this essay by pointing out that 40 years ago, at the beginning of my career, i thought that a reductionist approach based on the use of a simple experimental system such as aplysia might allow us to address fundamental questions in learning and memory. that was a leap of faith for which i have been rewarded beyond my fondest hopes. still, the complexity of explicit memory is formidable, and we have only begun to explore it. we as yet know little about the molecular mechanisms that initiate or stabilize the synaptic growth associated with long-term memory. what signaling molecules lead to the cytoskeletal rearrangements during synaptic remodeling? how do they relate to the molecules that control synapse formation during development? the university has also started the centre for distance education in 2003-04 with the aim of taking higher education to the door step of all the sectors of the society. the centre will be a great help to those who cannot join in colleges, those who cannot afford the exorbitant fees as regular students, and even to housewives desirous of pursuing higher studies. acharya nagarjuna university has started offering b. a. , and b. com courses at the degree level and m. a. , m. com. , m. sc. , m. b. a. , and l. l. m. , courses at the pg level from the academic year 2003-2004 onwards. to facilitate easier understanding by students studying through the distance mode, these self-instruction materials have been prepared by eminent and experienced teachers. the lessons have been drafted with great care and expertise in the stipulated time by these teachers. constructive ideas and scholarly suggestions are welcome from students and teachers involved respectively. such ideas will be incorporated for the greater efficacy of this distance mode of education. for clarification of doubts and feedback, weekly classes and contact classes will be arranged at the ug and pg levels respectively. in the 1890s a strand of thinking began to assert that it was necessary to push aside previous norms entirely, instead of merely revising past knowledge in light of current techniques. it was argued that, if the nature of reality itself was in question, and if restrictions which had been in place around human activity were falling, then art, too, would have to radically change. thus, in the first fifteen years of the twentieth century a series of writers, thinkers, and artists made the break with traditional means of organising literature, painting, and music. this wave of the modern movement broke with the past in the first decade of the twentieth century, and tried to redefine various art-forms in a radical manner. composers such as schoenberg, stravinsky, and george antheil represent modernism in music. artists such as gustav klimt, picasso, matisse, mondrian, and the movements les fauves, cubism and the surrealists represent various strains of modernism in the visual arts, while architects and designers such as le corbusier, walter gropius, and ludwig mies van der rohe brought modernist ideas into everyday urban life. several figures outside of artistic modernism were influenced by artistic ideas; for example, john maynard keynes was friends with virginia woolf and other writers of the london-based bloomsbury group. modernist literature attempted to move from the bonds of realist literature and to introduce concepts such as disjointed timelines. modernism was distinguished by an emancipatory metanarrative. in the wake of modernism, and post-enlightenment, metanarratives tended to be emancipatory, whereas beforehand this was not a consistent characteristic. contemporary metanarratives were becoming less relevant in light of the implications of world war i, the rise of trade unionism, a general social discontent, and the emergence of psychoanalysis. the consequent need for a unifying function brought about a growth in the political importance of culture. this term recognizes that mainstream discourse often "behaves" as if certain ideas, issues, or sub-groups of people simply don't exist, or hardly exist. in the mid-1950s, the mainstream media marginalized african americans or hispanics except in a few servant or character roles. gays and lesbians have been largely marginalized, as have the aged and the disabled, although this is becoming less prevalent. by noting this term, it suggests that we should continue to wonder what aspects of life are subject to varying degrees of denial and repression. this term recognizes the subtle story-like form of much of our social constructions. in modernity, much was spoken of as dry fact, but there was a kind of denial of the idea that facts didn't in fact stand alone, but were pulled out selectively to support this or that general interpretation, this or that story, which in turn tended to support certain beliefs and the established status of certain groups. narrative is a less grandiose term than "myth," but really it serves almost the same function. individuals, groups and nations all have their selected histories, the stories which tend to justify or create a coherent meaning for their existence. in this process of narrative, elements that don't fit are often ignored or actively repressed. some narratives thus foster the marginalization of those sub-groups or issues that suggest a different interpretation. for example, in the modern, mid 20th century, the cowboys were good guys and the indians were bad guys. although colonialism is now in disrepute, the "white man's burden" was a major myth that justified extensive economic and social exploitation of those less welltechnologically-endowed, under the guise of bringing the advantages of "civilization" and the benefits of "true religion. " the pervasive senses of ethnocentrism, nationalism, racism superiority, the separation of business and ethics, and the blind belief in science as a nearreligion, all are part of the mainstream of modernity. modernity was also largely patriarchial, although its most flagrant forms have become less respectable, they still are pervasive. postmodernism is an intellectual movement that has emerged since around 1960s. its essential idea involves the denial of any objective and absolute truth. rather, ideas are viewed as being social constructions. it is a broad movement with many different writers, often disagreeing among themselves. there is no manifesto or consensus, but the ideas noted above may be discerned as a common thread. there are also several stances, some being more dramatic or extreme and others more modest and moderate. in another sense, postmodernism is an intellectual response to the postmodern condition. frye uses the terms 'centripetal' and 'centrifugal' to describe his critical method. criticism, frye explains, is essentially centripetal when it moves inwardly, towards the structure of a text; it is centrifugal when it moves outwardly, away from the text and towards society and the outer world. lyric poetry, for instance, like keats's "ode on a grecian urn", is dominantly centripetal, stressing the sound and movement and imagery of the ordered words. rhetorical novels, like uncle tom's cabin, are dominantly centrifugal, stressing the thematic connection of the stories and characters to the social order. the "ode" has centrifugal tendencies, relying for its effects on elements of history and pottery and visual aesthetics. cabin has centripetal tendencies, relying on syntax and lexical choice to delineate characters and establish mood. but the one veers inward, the other pushes outward. criticism reflects these movements, centripetally focusing on the aesthetic function of literature, centrifugally on the social function of literature. in summary, for frye, literature is not mimetic. literary writers reflect not reality but, rather, regurgitate in complex ways in their individual works those simple pre-literary mythical narratives that are central to the cultural heritage of humanity. the human actions depicted therein are ultimately grounded in those personifications which humans have come to attach to natural events and phenomena in an effort to humanise an inherently intransigent and unintelligible natural world. it must be noted, however, that it is not for the most part a question of the writer consciously deciding to write a particular narrative corresponding to a specific genre. the choice of narrative form originates in the collective unconscious of mankind: when one wants to treat a particular aspect of human existence, particular forms suggest themselves automatically. for fanon in the wretched of the earth, the colonizer's presence in algeria is based on sheer military strength. any resistance to this strength must also be of a violent nature because it is the only "language" the colonizer speaks. thus, violent resistance is a necessity imposed by the colonists upon the colonized. the relevance of language and the reformation of discourse pervade much of his work, which is why it is so interdisciplinary, spanning psychiatric concerns to encompass politics, sociology, anthropology, linguistics and literature. the caribbean philosophical association offers the frantz fanon prize for work that furthers the decolonization and liberation of mankind. fanon's writings on black sexuality in black skin, white masks have garnered critical attention by a number of academics and queer theory scholars. interrogating fanon's perspective on the nature of black homosexuality and masculinity, queer theory academics have offered a variety of critical responses to fanon's words, negotiating his position within postcolonial studies with his influence on the formation of contemporary black queer theory. in the colonial countries where a real struggle for freedom has taken place, where the blood of the people has flowed and where the length of the period of armed warfare has favored the backward surge of intellectuals toward bases grounded in the people, we can observe a genuine eradication of the superstructure built by these intellectuals from the bourgeois colonialist environment. the colonialist bourgeoisie, in its narcissistic dialogue, expounded by the members of its universities, had in fact deeply implanted in the minds of the colonized intellectual that the essential qualities remain eternal in spite of all the blunders men may make: the essential qualities of the west, of course. the native intellectual accepted the cogency of these ideas, and deep down in his brain you could always find a vigilant sentinel ready to defend the greco-latin pedestal. now it so happens that during the straggle for liberation, at the moment that the native intellectual comes into touch again with his people, this artificial sentinel is turned into dust. history teaches us clearly that the battle against colonialism does not run straight away along the lines of nationalism. for a very long time the native devotes his energies to ending certain definite abuses: forced labor, corporal punishment, inequality of salaries, limitation of political rights, etc. this fight for democracy against the oppression of mankind will slowly leave the confusion of neo-liberal universalism to emerge, sometimes laboriously, as a claim to nationhood. it so happens that the unpreparedness of the educated classes, the lack of practical links between them and the mass of the people, their laziness, and, let it be said, their cowardice at the decisive moment of the struggle will give rise to tragic mishaps. the national middle class who takes over power at the end of the colonial regime is an underdeveloped middle class. it has practically no economic power, and in any case it is in no way commensurate with the bourgeoisie of the mother country which it hopes to replace. in its narcissism, the national middle class is easily convinced that it can advantageously replace the middle class of the mother country. but that same independence which literally drives it into a corner will give rise within its ranks to catastrophic reactions, and will oblige it to send out frenzied appeals for help to the former mother country. the university and merchant classes which make up the most enlightened section of the new state are in fact characterized by the smallness of their number and their being concentrated in the capital, and the type of activities in which they are engaged: business, agriculture, and the liberal professions. neither financiers nor industrial magnates are to be found within this national middle class. the national bourgeoisie of underdeveloped countries is not engaged in production, nor in invention, nor building, nor labor; it is completely canalized into activities of the intermediary type. its innermost vocation seems to be to keep in the running and to be part of the racket. the psychology of the national bourgeoisie is that of the businessman, not that of a captain of industry; and it is only too true that the greed of the settlers and the system of embargoes set up by colonialism have hardly left them any other choice. under the colonial system, a middle class which accumulates capital is an impossible phenomenon. now, precisely, it would seem that the historical vocation of an authentic national middle class in an underdeveloped country is to repudiate its own nature in so far it as it is bourgeois, that is to say in so far as it is the tool of capitalism, and to make itself the willing slave of that revolutionary capital which is the people. in an underdeveloped country an authentic national middle class ought to consider as its bounden duty to betray the calling fate has marked out for it, and to put itself to school with the people: in other words to put at the people's disposal the intellectual and technical capital that it has snatched when going through the colonial universities. but unhappily we shall see that very often the national middle class does not follow this heroic, positive, fruitful, and just path; rather, it disappears with its soul set at peace into the shocking ways shocking because anti-national of a traditional bourgeoisie, of a bourgeoisie which is stupidly, contemptibly, cynically bourgeois. starved and ill, if they have any spirit left, fear will finish the job; guns are leveled at the peasant; civilians come to take over his land and force him by dint of flogging to till the land for them. if he shows fight, the soldiers fire and he's a dead man; if he gives in, he degrades himself and he is no longer a man at all; shame and fear will split up his character and make his inmost self fall to pieces. the business is conducted with flying colors and by experts; the "psychological services" weren't established yesterday; nor was brainwashing. and yet, in spite of all these efforts, their ends are nowhere achieved: neither in the congo, where negroes' hands were cut off, nor in angola, where until very recently malcontents' lips were pierced in order to shut them with padlocks. i do not say that it is impossible to change a man into an animal: i simply say that you won't get there without weakening him considerably. blows will never suffice; you have to push the starvation further, and that's the trouble with slavery. the national middle class who takes over power at the end of the colonial regime is an underdeveloped middle class. it has practically no economic power, and in any case it is in no way commensurate with the bourgeoisie of the mother country which it hopes to replace. in its narcissism, the national middle class is easily convinced that it can advantageously replace the middle class of the mother country. but that same independence which literally drives it into a corner will give rise within its ranks to catastrophic reactions, and will oblige it to send out frenzied appeals for help to the former mother country. before independence, the leader generally embodies the aspirations of the people for independence, political liberty, and national dignity. but as soon as independence is declared, far from embodying in concrete form the needs of the people in what touches bread, land, and the restoration of the country to the sacred hands of the people, the leader will reveal his inner purpose: to become the general president of that company of profiteers impatient for their returns which constitutes the national bourgeoisie. the behavior of the national landed proprietors is practically identical with that of the middle classes of the towns. the big farmers have, as soon as independence is proclaimed, demanded the nationalization of agricultural production. through manifold scheming practices they manage to make a clean sweep of the farms formerly owned by settlers, thus reinforcing their hold on the district. but they do not try to introduce new agricultural methods, or to farm more intensively, or to integrate their farming systems into a genuinely national economy. the exploitation of agricultural workers will be intensified and made legitimate. using two or three slogans, these new colonists will demand an enormous amount of work from the agricultural laborers, in the name of the national effort of course. there will be no modernization of agriculture, no planning for development, and no initiative; for initiative throws these people into a panic since it implies a minimum of risk, and completely upsets the hesitant, prudent, landed bourgeoisie, which gradually slips more and more into the lines laid down by colonialism. in the districts where this is the case, the only efforts made to better things are due to the government; it orders them, encourages them, and finances them. the landed bourgeoisie refuses to take the slightest risk, and remains opposed to any venture and to any hazard. it has no intention of building upon sand; it demands solid investments and quick returns. the enormous profits which it pockets, enormous if we take into account the national revenue, are never reinvested. the money-in-the-stocking mentality is dominant in the psychology of these landed proprietors. sometimes, especially in the years immediately following independence, the bourgeoisie does not hesitate to invest in foreign banks the profits that it makes out of its native soil. on the other hand large sums are spent on display: on cars, country houses, and on all those things which have been justly described by economists as characterizing an underdeveloped bourgeoisie. we have said that the native bourgeoisie which comes to power uses its class aggressiveness to corner the positions formerly kept for foreigners. on the morrow of independence, in fact, it violently attacks colonial personalities: barristers, traders, landed proprietors, doctors, and higher civil servants. it will fight to the bitter end against these people "who insult our dignity as a nation. " it waves aloft the notion of the nationalization and africanization of the ruling classes. the fact is that such action will become more and more tinged by racism, until the bourgeoisie bluntly puts the problem to the government by saying "we must have these posts. " they will not stop their snarling until they have taken over everyone. in the ivory coast, the anti-dahoman and anti-voltaic troubles are in fact racial riots. the dahoman and voltaic peoples, who control the greater part of the petty trade, are, once independence is declared, the object of hostile manifestations on the part of the people of the ivory coast. from nationalism we have passed to ultra-nationalism, to chauvinism, and finally to racism. these foreigners are called on to leave; their shops are burned, their street stalls are wrecked, and in fact the government of the ivory coast commands them to go, thus giving their nationals satisfaction. from time to time, however, the leader makes an effort; he speaks on the radio or makes a tour of the country to pacify the people, to calm them and bemuse them. the leader is all the more necessary in that there is no party. during the period of the struggle for independence there was one right enough, a party led by the present leader. but since then this party has sadly disintegrated; nothing is left but the shell of a party, the name, the emblem, and the motto. the living party, which ought to make possible the free exchange of ideas which have been elaborated according to the real needs of the mass of the people, has been transformed into a trade union of individual interests. since the proclamation of independence the party no longer helps the people to set out its demands, to become more aware of its needs and better able to establish its power. today, the party's mission is to deliver to the people the instructions which issue from the summit. there no longer exists the fruitful give-and-take from the bottom to the top and from the top to the bottom which creates and guarantees democracy in a party. quite on the contrary, the party has made itself into a screen between the masses and the leaders. there is no longer any party life, for the branches which were set up during the colonial period are today completely demobilized. the observations that we have been able to make about the national bourgeoisie bring us to a conclusion which should cause no surprise. in underdeveloped countries, the bourgeoisie should not be allowed to find the conditions necessary for its existence and its growth. in other words, the combined effort of the masses led by a party and of intellectuals who are highly conscious and armed with revolutionary principles ought to bar the way to this useless and harmful middle class. the fact is that the settler wanted the native to be enthusiastic. by a sort of process of mystification which constitutes the most sublime type of separation from reality, he wanted to persuade the slave that the land that he worked belonged to him, that the mines where he lost his health were owned by him. the settler was singularly forgetful of the fact that he was growing rich through the death throes of the slave. in fact what the settler was saying to the native was "kill yourself that i may become rich. " today, we must behave in a different fashion. we ought not to say to the people: "kill yourselves that the country may become rich. " if we want to increase the national revenue, and decrease the importing of certain products which are useless, or even harmful, if we want to increase agricultural production and overcome illiteracy, we must explain what we are about. the people must understand what is at stake. public business ought to be the business of the public. so the necessity of creating a large number of well-informed nuclei at the bottom crops up again. too often, in fact, we are content to establish national organizations at the top and always in the capital: the women's union, the young people's federation, trade unions, etc. but if one takes the trouble to investigate what is behind the office in the capital, if you go into the inner room where the reports ought to be, you will be shocked by the emptiness, the blank spaces, and the bluff. there must be a basis; there must be cells that supply content and life. the masses should be able to meet together, discuss, propose, and receive directions. the living expression of the nation is the moving consciousness of the whole of the people; it is the coherent, enlightened action of men and women. the collective building up of a destiny is the assumption of responsibility on the historical scale. otherwise there is anarchy, repression, and the resurgence of tribal parties and federalism. the national government, if it wants to be national, ought to govern by the people and for the people, for the outcasts and by the outcasts. no leader, however valuable he may be, can substitute himself for the popular will; and the national government, before concerning itself about international prestige, ought first to give back their dignity to all citizens, fill their minds and feast their eyes with human things, and create a prospect that is human because conscious and sovereign men dwell therein. said argued that because orientalist scholarship was and remains inextricably tied to the imperialist societies that produced it, much of the work is inherently political and servile to power, and so is intellectually suspect. the thesis of orientalism is the politics of discourse applied to the middle east, namely that the orientalist discourse arises from a particular culture defined by the presuppositions of that political culture which, in turn, shape the political culture and the political culture of the subject area. in all my works, i remained fundamentally critical of a gloating and uncritical nationalism. my view of palestine remains the same today: i expressed all sorts of reservations about the insouciant nativism, and militant militarism of the nationalist consensus; i suggested, instead, a critical look at the arab environment, palestinian history, and the israeli realities, with the explicit conclusion that only a negotiated settlement, between the two communities of suffering, arab and jewish, would provide respite from the unending war. i doubt if it is controversial, for example, to say that an englishman in india, or egypt, in the later nineteenth century, took an interest in those countries, which was never far from their status, in his mind, as british colonies. to say this may seem quite different from saying that all academic knowledge about india and egypt is somehow tinged and impressed with, violated by, the gross political fact and yet that is what i am saying in this study of orientalism. in his qualifications for interpreting orientalism, said includes several points of interest and clarification. he agrees with disraeli, in saying that the east is more than just an idea with no corresponding reality. in fact, this is concurrent with the fact that many western scholars have dedicated their entire lives to studying the orient. secondly, said reinforces that it is irresponsible to discount the control that the west exercised over these societies. the study of orientalism could not exist had the east not been the victim of western power and domination. next, said differentiates between the types of society and how cultural influence is derived. he cites antonio gramsci as distinguishing between civil and political society, and the different configurations and responsibilities therein. according to gramsci, a political society is one in which the citizen is directly dominated and imposed on by the state, who create and maintain the social institutions. civil society, however, is made up of citizens voluntarily affiliating themselves with certain social responsibilities. only under this type of society does the derivation of cultural enterprise instantiate itself. in his concluding remarks, said delves further into the reasoning behind the futility of a positive view of arab life in the west. his remaining comments include that his experiences as a person of arab descent are what motivated him to write about orientalism in the first place. for someone who is so directly and negatively affected by western perceptions of the arab world and the orient altogether, his analysis is a fairly objective and sophisticated view of orientalism. perhaps it is because of his experiences with lifelong stereotypes and the apparent dichotomy of western and eastern approaches to the subject. edward said was proud of the achievements of those from the lands of his ancestors, and felt that while it was bad enough for the everyday person in the west to think of belly dancers and squeaking monkeys when they thought of places like baghdad or cairo, it was a completely different thing for the so-called experts to have any of that in their mind. said never denied that those things existed, but instead argued that too much of a big deal was made about them. the thing that said was able to point out was that the west was sneaky about how it poked at these institutions. whereas a european king who spent too much time partying might be portrayed as having too many mistresses, an ottoman or arab ruler was accused of spending too much time in the harem. the word difference is very subtle, but said posits that it carries very big connotations. one invokes the idea that the king is discreet, whereas we get the image of the ottoman or arab ruler being fed grapes by hand while being waved with giant ostrich feathers. yet the real danger was not just that it was outsiders who were starting to think this way. the elites of middle eastern society tended to read english, german, and french texts to learn about their pasts, so now their perceptions were being affected by these biases. in short, the most powerful people in the middle east were starting to think that their ancestors were something to be ashamed of, despite the overwhelming evidence around them! said knew that for the rising power of arab nationalism to be successful, people would have to be able to reach back and be proud of what they found. this collection of three books published in 1967 elaborated derrida's theoretical framework. derrida attempts to approach the very heart of the western intellectual tradition, characterizing this tradition as "a search for a transcendental being that serves as the origin or guarantor of meaning. " the attempt to "ground the meaning relations constitutive of the world in an instance that itself lies outside all relationality" was referred to by heidegger as "logocentrism," and derrida argues that the philosophical enterprise is essentially logocentric, and that this is a paradigm inherited from judaism and hellenism. he in turn describes logocentrism as phallocratic, patriarchal and masculinist. beyond these explicit political interventions, however, derrida was engaged in rethinking politics and the political itself, within and beyond philosophy. derrida insisted that a distinct political undertone pervades his texts since the very beginning of his career. nevertheless, the attempt to understand the political implications of notions of responsibility, reason of state, the other, decision, sovereignty, europe, friendship, difference, faith, and so on, became much more marked from the early 1990s on. by 2000, theorizing "democracy to come," and thinking the limitations of existing democracies, had become important concerns. what does the notion of structure in general, on whose basis husserl operates and operates distinctions between empirical, eidetic, and transcendental dimensions mean, and what has it always meant throughout its displacements? and what is the historicosemantic relationship between genesis and structure in general? " is not only simply to ask a prior linguistic question. it is to ask the question about the unity of the historical ground on whose basis a transcendental reduction is possible and is motivated by itself. it is to ask the question about the unity of the world from which transcendental freedom releases itself, in order to make the origin of this unity appear. while post-structuralism is difficult to define or summarize, it can be broadly understood as a body of distinct reactions to structuralism. there are two main reasons for this difficulty. first, it rejects definitions that claim to have discovered absolute "truths" or facts about the world. second, very few thinkers have willingly accepted the label 'poststructuralist'; rather, they have been labeled as such by others. consequently, no one has felt compelled to construct a "manifesto" of post-structuralism. indeed, it would be inconsistent with post-structuralist concepts to codify itself in such a way. the occasional designation of post-structuralism as a movement can be tied to the fact that mounting criticism of structuralism became evident at approximately the same time that structuralism became a topic of interest in universities in the united states. this interest led to a 1966 conference at johns hopkins university that invited scholars who were thought to be prominent structuralists, including derrida, barthes, and lacan. derrida's lecture at that conference, "structure, sign, and play in the human sciences," often appears in collections as a manifesto against structuralism. derrida's essay was one of the earliest to propose some theoretical limitations to structuralism, and to attempt to theorize on terms that were clearly no longer structuralist. derrida began speaking and writing publicly at a time when the french intellectual scene was experiencing an increasing rift between what could broadly speaking be called "phenomenological" and "structural" approaches to understanding individual and collective life. for those with a more phenomenological bent, the goal was to understand experience by comprehending and describing its genesis, the process of its emergence from an origin or event. for the structuralists, this was precisely the false problem, and the "depth" of experience could in fact only be an effect of structures which are not them self experiential. it is in this context that in 1959 derrida asks the question: must not structure have a genesis, and must not the origin, the point of genesis, be already structured, in order to be the genesis of something? it would be easy enough to show that the concept of structure and even the word "structure" itself are as old as the episteme -that is to say, as old as western science and western philosophy-and that their roots thrust deep into the soil of ordinary language, into whose deepest recesses the episteme plunges to gather them together once more, making them part of itself in a metaphorical displacement. nevertheless, up until the event which i wish to mark out and define, structure-or rather the structurality of structure-although it has always been involved, has always been neutralized or reduced, and this by a process of giving it a center or referring it to a point of presence, a fixed origin. the function of this center was not only to orient, balance, and organize the structure-one cannot in fact conceive of an unorganized structure-but above all to make sure that the organizing principle of the structure would limit what we might call the free play of the structure. this is why one could perhaps say that the movement of any archeology, like that of any eschatology, is an accomplice of this reduction of the structuralality of structure and always attempts to conceive of structure from the basis of a full presence which is out of play. the event i called a rupture, the disruption alluded to at the beginning of this paper, would presumably have come about when the structurality of structure had to begin to be thought, that is to say, repeated, and this is why i said that this disruption was repetition in all of the senses of this word. from then on it became necessary to think the law which governed, as it were, the desire for the center in the constitution of structure and the process of signification prescribing its displacements and its substitutions for this law of the central presence-but a central presence which was never itself, which has always already been transported outside itself in its surrogate. the surrogate does not substitute itself for anything which has somehow pre-existed it. from then on it was probably necessary to begin to think that there was no center, that the center could not be thought in the form of a being present, that the center had no natural locus, that it was not a fixed locus but a function, a sort of nonlocus in which an infinite number of sign-substitutions came into play. this moment was that in which language invaded the universal problematic; that in which, in the absence of a center or origin, everything became discourse-provided we can agree on this word-that is to say, when everything became a system where the central signified, the original or transcendental signified, is never absolutely present outside a system of differences. the absence of the transcendental signified extends the domain and the interplay of signification ad infinitum. there is no sense in doing without the concepts of metaphysics in order to attack metaphysics. we have no language-no syntax and no lexicon-which is alien to this history; we cannot utter a single destructive proposition which has not already slipped into the form, the logic, and the implicit postulations of precisely what it seeks to contest. to pick out one example from many: the metaphysics of presence is attacked with the help of the concept of the sign. but from the moment anyone wishes this to show, as i suggested a moment ago, that there is no transcendental or privileged signified and that the domain or the interplay of signification has, henceforth, no limit, he ought to extend his refusal to the concept and to the word sign itself-which is precisely what cannot be done. for the signification "sign" has always been comprehended and determined, in its sense, as sign-off, signifier referring to a signified, and signifier different from its signified. and what i am saying here about the sign can be extended to all the concepts and all the sentences of metaphysics, in particular to the discourse on "structure. " but there are many ways of being caught in this circle. they are all more or less naive, more or less empirical, and more or less systematic, more or less close to the formulation or even to the formalization of this circle. it is these differences which explain the multiplicity of destructive discourses and the disagreement between those who make them. it was within concepts inherited from metaphysics that nietzsche, freud, and heidegger worked, for example. since these concepts are not elements or atoms and since they are taken from syntax and a system, every particular borrowing drags along with it the whole of metaphysics. this is what allows these destroyers to destroy each other reciprocally-for example, heidegger considering nietzsche, with as much lucidity and rigor as bad faith and misconstruction, as the last metaphysician, the last "platonist. this moment is not first and foremost a moment of philosophical or scientific discourse, it is also a moment which is political, economic, technical, and so forth. one can say in total assurance that there is nothing fortuitous about the fact that the critique of ethnocentrism-the very condition of ethnology-should be systematically and historically contemporaneous with the destruction of the history of metaphysics. both belong to a single and same era. ethnology-like any science-comes about within the element of discourse. and it is primarily a european science employing traditional concepts, however much it may struggle against them. consequently, whether he wants to or not-and this does not depend on a decision on his part-the ethnologist accepts into his discourse the premises of ethnocentrism at the very moment when he is employed in denouncing them this necessity is irreducible; it is not a historical contingency. we ought to consider very carefully all its implications. but if nobody can escape this necessity, and if no one is therefore responsible for giving in to it, however little, this does not mean that all the ways of giving in to it are of an equal pertinence. the quality and the fecundity of a discourse are perhaps measured by the critical rigor with which this relationship to the history of metaphysics and to inherited concepts is thought. here it is a question of a critical relationship to the language of the human sciences and a question of a critical responsibility of the discourse. if i now go on to employ an examination of the texts of levi-strauss as an example, it is not only because of the privilege accorded to ethnology among the human sciences, nor yet because the thought of levi-strauss weighs heavily on the contemporary theoretical situation. it is above all because a certain choice has made itself evident in the work of levi-strauss and because a certain doctrine has been elaborated there, and precisely in a more or less explicit manner, in relation to this critique of language and to this critical language in the human sciences. let us assume therefore that everything universal in man derives from the order of nature and is charactenzed by spontaneity, that everything which is subject to a norm belongs to culture and presents the attributes of the relative and the particular. we then find ourselves confronted by a fact, or rather an ensemble of facts, which, in the light of the preceding definitions, is not far from appeanog as a scandal: the prohibition of incest presents without the least equivocation, and indissolubly linked together, the two characteristics in which we recognized the contradictory attributes of two exclusive orders. the prohibition of incest constitutes a rule, but a rule, alone of all the social rules, which possess at the same time a universal character. in order to avoid the possibly sterilizing effect of the first way, the other choice-which i feel corresponds more nearly to the way chosen by levi-strauss-consists in conserving in the field of empirical discovery all these old concepts, while at the same time exposing here and there their limits, treating them as tools which can still be of use. no longer is any truthvalue attributed to them; there is a readiness to abandon them if necessary if other instruments should appear more useful. in the meantime, their relative efficacy is exploited, and they are employed to destroy the old machinery to which they belong and of which they themselves are pieces. thus it is that the language of the human sciences criticizes itself. on the other hand, still in the savage mind, he presents as what he calls bricolage what might be called the discourse of this method. the bricoleur, says levi-strauss, is someone who uses "the means at hand," that is, the instruments he finds at his disposition around him, those which are already there, which had not been especially conceived with an eye to the operation for which they are to be used and to which one tries by trial and error to adapt them, not hesitating to change them whenever it appears necessary, or to try several of them at once, even if their form and their origin are heterogenous and so forth. there is therefore a critique of language in the form of bricolage, and it has even been possible to say that bricolage is the critical language itself. when we think we have disentangled them from each other and can hold them separate, it is only to realize that they are joining together again, in response to the attraction of unforeseen affinities. in consequence, the unity of the myth is only tangential and projective; it never reflects a state or a moment of the myth. an imaginary phenomenon implied by the endeavor to interpret, its role is to give a synthetic form to the myth and to impede its dissolution into the confusion of contraries. it could therefore be said that the science or knowledge of myths is an anaclastic, taking this ancient term in the widest sense authorized by its etymology, a science which admits into its definition the study of the reflected rays along with that of the broken ones. but, unlike philosophical reflection, which claims to go all the way back to its source, the reflections in question here concern rays without any other than a virtual focus. . . . i have said that empiricism is the matrix of all the faults menacing a discourse which continues, as with levistrauss in particular, to elect to be scientific. if we wanted to pose the problem of empiricism and bricolage in depth, we would probably end up very quickly with a number of propositions absolutely contradictory in relation to the status of discourse in structural ethnography. on the one hand, structuralism justly claims to be the critique of empiricism. critics who might take me to task for not having begun by making an exhaustive inventory of south american myths before analyzing them would be making a serious mistake about the nature and the role of these documents. the totality of the myths of a people is of the order of the discourse. provided that this people does not become physically or morally extinct, this totality is never closed. such a criticism would therefore be equivalent to reproaching a linguist with writing the grammar of a language without having recorded the totality of the words which have been uttered since that language came into existence and without knowing the verbal exchanges which will take place as long as the language continues to exist. experience proves that an absurdly small number of sentences allows the linguist to elaborate a grammar of the language he is studying. and even a partial grammar or an outline of a grammar represents valuable acquisitions in the case of unknown languages. syntax does not wait until it has been possible to enumerate a theoretically unlimited series of events before becoming manifest, because syntax consists in the body of rules which presides over the generation of these events. and it is precisely a syntax of south american mythology that i wanted to outline. should new texts appear to enrich the mythical discourse, then this will provide an opportunity to check or modify the way in which certain grammatical laws have been formulated, an opportunity to discard certain of them and an opportunity to discover new ones. but in no instance can the requirement of a total mythical discourse be raised as an objection. for we have just seen that such a requirement has no meaning. and i assert once again that these two determinations coexist implicitly in the discourses of levi-strauss. totalization can be judged impossible in the classical style: one then refers to the empirical endeavor of a subject or of a finite discourse in a vain and breathless quest of an infinite richness which it can never master. there is too much, more than one can say. but non-totalization can also be determined in another way: not from the standpoint of the concept of finitude as assigning us to an empirical view, but from the standpoint of the concept of free play. if totalization no longer has any meaning, it is not because the infinity of a field cannot be covered by a finite glance or a finite discourse, but because the nature of the field-that is, language and a finite language-excludes totalization. this field permits these infinite substitutions only because it is finite, that is to say, because instead of being an inexhaustible field, as in the classical hypothesis, instead of being too large, there is something missing from it: a center which arrests and founds the free play of substitutions. one could say-rigorously using that word whose scandalous signification is always obliterated in french-that this movement of the free play, permitted by the lack, the absence of a center or origin, is the movement of supplementarily. one cannot determine the center, the sign which supplements it, which takes its place in its absence-because this sign adds itself, occurs in addition, over and above, comes as a supplement. the movement of signification adds something, which results in the fact that there is always more, but this addition is a floating one because it comes to perform a vicarious function, to supplement a lack on the part of the signified. in other words-and taking as our guide mauss's. precept that all social phenomena can be assimilated to language-we see in mana, wakau, oranda and other notions of the same type, the conscious expression of a semantic function, whose role it is to permit symbolic thought to operate in spite of the contradiction which is proper to it. in this way are explained the apparently insoluble 1 antinomies attached to this notion. at one and the same time force and action, quality and state, substantive and verb; abstract and concrete, omnipresent and localized-mana is in effect all these things. but is it not precisely because it is none of these things that mana is a simple form, or more exactly, a symbol in the pure state, and therefore capable of becoming charged with any sort of symbolic content whatever? it is in tension with history, first of all. this is a classical problem, objections to which are i now well worn or used up. i shall simply indicate i what seems to me the formality of the problem: by reducing history, levi-strauss has treated as it deserves a concept which has always been in complicity with a teleological and eschatological metaphysics, in other words, paradoxically, in complicity with that philosophy of presence to which it was believed history could be opposed. the thematic of historicity, although it seems to be a somewhat late arrival in philosophy, has always been required by the determination of being as presence. with or without etymology, and in spite of the classic antagonism which opposes these significations throughout all of classical thought, it could be shown that the concept of episteme has always called forth that of historia, if history is always the unity of a becoming, as tradition of truth or development of science or knowledge oriented toward the appropriation of truth in presence and self-presence, toward knowledge in consciousness-ofself. history has always been conceived as the movement of a resumption of history, a diversion between two presences. but if it is legitimate to suspect this concept of history, there is a risk, if it is reduced without an express statement of the problem i am indicating here, of falling back into an historicism of a classical type, that is to say, in a determinate moment of the history of metaphysics. such is the algebraic formality of the problem as i see it. more concretely, in the work of levi-strauss it must be recognized that the respect for structurality, for the internal originality of the structure, compels a neutralization of time and history. for example, the appearance of a new structure, of an original system, always comes about-and this is the very condition of its structural specificity-by a rupture with its past, its origin, and its cause. besides the tension of free play with history, there is also the tension of free play with presence. free play is the disruption of presence. the presence of an element is always a signifying and substitutive reference inscribed in a system of differences and the movement of a chain. free play is always interplay of absence and presence, but if it is to be radically conceived, free play must be conceived of before the alternative of presence and absence; being must be conceived of as presence or absence beginning with the possibility of free play and not the other way around. if levi-strauss, better than any other, has brought to light the free play of repetition and the repetition of free play, one no less perceives in his work a sort of ethic presence, an ethic of nostalgia for origins, an ethic of archaic and natural innocence, of a purity of presence and self-presence in speech-an ethic, nostalgia, and even remorse which he often presents as the motivation of the ethnological project when he moves toward archaic societies-exemplary societies in his eyes. these texts are well known. as a turning toward the presence, lost or impossible, of the absent origin, this structuralist thematic of broken immediateness is thus the sad, negative, nostalgic, guilty, rousseauist facet of the thinking of free play of which the nietzschean affirmation-the joyous affirmation of the free play of the world and without truth, without origin, offered to an active interpretation-would be the other side. this affirmation then determines the non-center otherwise than as loss of the center. and it plays the game without security. for there is a sure free play: that which is limited to the substitution of given and existing, present, pieces. in absolute chance, affirmation also surrenders itself to genetic indetermination, to the seminal adventure of the trace. there are thus two interpretations of interpretation, of structure, of sign, of free play. the one seeks to decipher, dreams of deciphering, a truth or an origin which is free from free play and from the order of the sign, and lives like an exile the necessity of interpretation. the other, which is no longer turned toward the origin, affirms free play and tries to pass beyond man and humanism, the name man being the name of that being who, throughout the history of metaphysics or of onto theology-in other words, through the history of all of his historyhas dreamed of full presence, the reassuring foundation, the origin and the end of the game. here there is a sort of question, call it historical, of which we are only glimpsing today the conception, the formation, the gestation, the labor. i employ these words, i admit, with a glance toward the business of childbearing-but also with a glance toward those who, in a company from which i do not exclude myself, turn their eyes away in the face of the as yet unnameable which is proclaiming itself and which can do so, as is necessary whenever a birth is in the offing, only under the species of the non-species, in the formless, mute, infant, and terrifying form of monstrosity. the feminist critics raise their voice against the act of violence against belinda and at her powerlessness. they want to point out the model of woman that pope has constructed to ideally suit to serve male ends. the feminist critique as a sort of feminist criticism envisions the women as the readers of those male produced texts. the feminists thus, try to trace out the images and stereotype of the women exposed in the male texts. this is also called traditional feminist criticism where women are the consumers of the production in literary writing. with reference to the mayor of casterbridge, showalter identifies a couple of problems with the dominant themes of literary criticism, which are male-oriented, devoted to exposing what men thought women were and should be. one may need years of apprenticeship in a male-created critical tradition in order to carry out this type of criticism. it tends to naturalize women's oppression by focusing on it and gives victimization an allure. however, a great deal of interesting work has been carried out in this tradition. certainly hermeneutics, ideological criticism, psychoanalytic criticism and new historicism all provide good tools for this study. it was the time of the agitation for the vote for women, a time of great feminist action, and writers supported and in some cases led these political and sociological movements. this prompted, by the way, a backlash in the male and female community, as many women take the men's side as a means of protecting themselves or because they simply have not seen the problems. take, for instance, queenie leavis' sharp attack on virginia woolf for woolf's bitter, angry and very astute polemic, the three guineas, written in the early 30's. the four essays in the dialogic imagination are works of literary theory unified by their focus on the novel as a distinct and developing genre. bakhtin concerns himself with the unique nature of the novel, its relationship to other genres, and its origins and development. compared with other genres whose patterns are established and fixed, such as the epic, the novel according to bakhtin is a fluid, developing form, one that resists generic categorization. frequently in these essays, bakhtin uses the novel as a vehicle for his exploration of ideas about the nature of language and its relationship to social structures. the focus of this is on the study of the novel, and what it means to study the novel. it is a new genre and its skeleton is flexible, and not hard. the novel has the potential to continue to grow and shape itself beyond what it is now. this may be compared to older genres such as the epic and tragedy, which are old and stable. to extend the metaphor, their skeletons are hard, thus they cannot grow beyond what they are. one may even go so far as to say that their skeletons are brittle, that extension too far will quickly shake a work beyond the reaches of the genre. the essay applies the concept of chronotope in order to further demonstrate the distinctive quality of the novel. the word chronotope literally means "time space" and is defined by bakhtin as "the intrinsic connectedness of temporal and spatial relationships that are artistically expressed in literature. " for the purpose of his writing, an author must create entire worlds and, in doing so, is forced to make use of the organizing categories of the real world in which he lives. for this reason chronotope is a concept that engages reality. separation of aesthetics from philosophy is not a defect, instead it has several advantages. it is free from ideological constraints and the danger of formulating several theories. thus the aestheticians have freedom to postulate vyangyartha. this theory of meaning sheds new light on the nature of art. where such a theory is not necessary, they select one or the other views held by the philosophic schools according to the needs. such eclecticism is more detached and better than adopting a particular philosophic point of view. the idealistic view: according to the idealists, nature as a whole is beautiful, but seen in parts, it may not be so, it may even appear ugly. for those who take a synoptic view of nature, art may be superfluous, but it is not so for many. according to vedanta when man realises the highest truth, he sees the glory of being everywhere and is in brahmananda. till then he can have complete beauty only in art. even the parts in nature which appear beautiful need not continue to be so with changes in time and our attitude towards them. hence we require the creations of art. the first is unselfishness. it is not the outward unselfishness resulting from the sociable nature of man and calculated by selfish considerations. such unselfishness is not complete. the selflessness of art experience is spontaneous and complete. man grows so selfless that he forgets his private self. it is a disinterested contemplation of beauty. any personal aim in it fails the pursuit. the second characteristic is a byproduct of the first. it yields a kind of joy which is pure and untainted by the least pain. it is transcendental in nature. it is higher than that day-to-day life characterized by mental tension. there came a change in the ninth century with the rasadhavani school of anandavardhana and by abhinavagupta. it holds that content does not mean merely meaning which is the outer ornament of art. emotion is important; art appeals to the imagination which implies emotion. the emotional character of the situation depicted by the artist constitutes the true content of art and the type of experience to which it gives rise in the spectator is called rasa. the excellences of meaning require significance only in relation to the emotion which it is intended to sub serve. if they are out of harmony with the emotion depicted, they produce the opposite of artistic feelings in the spectator. another poet who finds mention is dohara kakkaiah, a dalit by birth, six of whose confessional poems survive. modern dalit literature: in the modern era, dalit literature received its first impetus with the advent of legendary leaders like mahatma phule and dr. babasaheb ambedkar in maharashtra, who brought forth the issues of dalits through their works and writings. this started a new trend in dalit writing and inspired many dalits to come forth with writings in marathi, hindi and punjabi. after 60 years of independence, india shines, for whom? the indian economy of our country is very strong but each one of us needs to ask a question to selfhas india succeeded in making weaker section strong? of course not, it is because to make very decorative policies for the uplifting of dalits is the policy of many governments. the provision in budget made for dalits and adivashies are for name sake. the crores of rupees of dalits are diverted for some other purposes. now, government has started giving reservation to jain, muslim and sheikh considering them as a minority group of people. everywhere in the world reservation is provided on the basis of caste or race and not on the basis of religion. dalit literature is showing the true face of indian society. equality is there on paper for the name sake and even today in many corners of india dalits are living the life of slave. dalit literature is full of suffering, trouble, torture and humiliation. the literature created by arjun dangle focuses on the social, political and economical status of dalits yesterday and today. cultural studies concentrates upon the political dynamics of contemporary culture, its historical foundations, defining traits, and conflicts. cultural studies researchers generally investigate how cultural practices relate to wider systems of power associated with or operating through social phenomena, such as ideology, class structures, national formations, ethnicity, sexual orientation, gender and generation. cultural studies critically views cultures not as fixed, bounded, stable and discrete entities, but rather as constantly interacting and changing sets of practices and processes. cultural history combines the approaches of anthropology and history to look at popular cultural traditions and cultural interpretations of historical experience. it examines the records and narrative descriptions of past matter encompasses the continuum of events occurring in succession leading from the past to the present and even into the future pertaining to a culture. cultural history records and interprets past events involving human beings through the social, cultural, and political milieu of or relating to the arts and manners that a group favours. cultural history studies and interprets the record of human societies by denoting the various distinctive ways of living built up by a group of people under consideration. it involves the aggregate of past cultural activity, such as ceremony, class in practices, and the interaction with locales. english has been concerned with the study of signifying practice on par with philosophy, history and sociology. now english departments are finding modes of address to readers and conditions in which they are intelligible. cultural history needs to appropriate and develop those strategies. she says that there is a great deal of work to be done on the specificity of modes of address and the history of the subject. the wok is then history of meanings and struggles for meaning, and in every place where meaning can be found. its purpose is to change the subject involving ourselves as practitioners in the political and pedagogic process of making history. the article is an account of analysis that developed by catherine belsey on cultural history. it all began with critical practice, the 1980 new accents volume that introduced catherine belsey to an international audience and laid out what were to become some of the signature features of her work: namely, a passionate embrace of theoretical inquiry, a strong antipathy to the moralizing and the empiricism that imbued one strand of twentieth-century british criticism, and an intellectual voraciousness that refused to be tethered to a particular genre or period. this essay appears in shakespeare studies it is in part because belsey has written extensively about early modern drama, and particularly about shakespeare, but that has never been her sole interest. her books discuss the poetry of john donne and john milton, the fiction of conan doyle, the romances of thomas malory, alfred lord tennyson, and chretien de troyes, and the plays of bertold brecht, among many others. her critical range of reference is equally capacious; aristotle, sidney, kant, hegel, freud, lacan, althusser, machery, leavis, stanley fish, saussure. structuralism is a theoretical paradigm in sociology, anthropology, linguistics and semiotics positing that elements of human culture must be understood in terms of their relationship to a larger, overarching system or structure. it works to uncover the structures that underlie all the things that humans do, think, perceive, and feel. post-structuralism is grounded in the concept of over-determination, even when the concept does not appear explicitly in textual presentations. over-determination as an epistemology implies the absence of a break between discourse and the objects of discourse. it implies that theory is not separate from reality nor is reality separate from theory. we see what we are taught to see in the concepts we learn. the concepts we learn are complexly shaped by the stream of reality of which we are elements. post-structuralism recognizes the power of discourse to shape reality. in other words, at any given moment and theoretical understanding, we experience only limited aspects of the world and some of what we experience is based on falsehoods embedded in some of the discourses we have learned. belsey's engagement with the theoretical turn was distinctive in several ways. first, she wrote about it pedagogically. though she defended difficulty in critical language as sometimes necessary to the exposition of complex and unfamiliar ideas, she herself wrote and still writes a remarkably lucid prose, one that undergraduates can, with a little justified effort, understand. her goal seemed always to make new ideas usable, to have them affect "critical practice," which was, after all, the title she chose for her new accents volume. while some were building word fortresses, belsey was engaged in opening up the treasury of theoretical reflection to anyone who wanted to make use of its riches. i remember very clearly using critical practice in the undergraduate classroom, working through what was at stake in substituting the word "subject" for the word "self" or asking whether there really was an intrinsic difference between a "declarative" and an "interrogative" text or if there were only different ways of reading. new historicism and cultural materialism have become two of the most powerful and appealing movements in modern criticism. their initial conquest of renaissance studies has escalated into a global colonisation of english and american literary history. a wealth of innovative work has emerged on everything from the canterbury tales to the cantos, bringing intense theoretical controversy in its wake. this reader pulls the diversity and polemical vigour of this new critical constellation into focus for the first time. the introduction identifies the key concerns of both approaches, unpacks their theoretical assumptions and clarifies their chief points of convergence and antagonism. the first group of essays locates the intellectual sources of new historicism and cultural materialism in figures such as foucault, benjamin, althusser and derrida. the second mounts a theoretical debate between prominent exponents and opponents of both kinds of criticism, including stephen greenblatt, catherine belsey, alan sinfield and catherine gallagher. much of the most exciting work in history recently has been affiliated with this wideranging effort to write history that is essentially a history of culture. the essays presented here provide an introduction to this movement within the discipline of history. the essays in part one trace the influence of important models for the new cultural history, models ranging from the path-breaking work of the french cultural critic michel foucault and the american anthropologist clifford geertz to the imaginative efforts of such contemporary historians as natalie davis and e. p. thompson, as well as the more controversial theories of hayden white and dominick lacapra. the essays in part two are exemplary of the most challenging and fruitful new work of historians in this genre, with topics as diverse as parades in 19thcentury america, 16th-century spanish texts, english medical writing, and the visual practices implied in italian renaissance frescoes. beneath this diversity, however, it is possible to see the commonalities of the new cultural history as it takes shape. since the modern film was an invention in the late 19th century and it became an industry in the early 20th century, a systematic study of film did not exist before 20th century. film studies is an academic stream which is dedicated the creation of film theory. therefore, it is not a study to discuss the technical aspects of film creation like direction, cinematography, script writing, editing etc. film studies, as an academic discipline was a new concept in the twentieth century. film studies are concerned with exploring the narrative, artistic, cultural, economic, and political implications of the cinema. in searching for these social-ideological values, film studies take a series of critical approaches for the analysis of production, theoretical framework, context, and creation. in this sense the film studies discipline exists as one in which the teacher does not always assume the primary educator role; the featured film itself serves that function. also, in studying film, possible careers include critic or production. film theory often includes the study of conflicts between the aesthetics of visual hollywood and the textual analysis of screenplay. overall, the study of film continues to grow, as does the industry on which it focuses. academic journals publishing film studies work include screen, cinema journal, film quarterly, and journal of film and video. the prominent persons that have influenced the study of film range from teachers to movie producers but can be subsumed into two major categories: persons in film production and persons in film criticism. a movement away from hollywood productions in the 1950s turned cinema into a more artistic independent endeavor. it was the creation of the auteur theory, which asserted film as the director's vision and art that prompted film studies to become truly considered academically worldwide in the 1960s. in 1965, film critic robin wood, in his writings on alfred hitchcock, declared that hitchcock's films contained the same complexities of shakespeare's plays. with stable enrollment, proper budgets and interest in all humanities numerous universities contained the ability to offer distinct film studies programs. many programs conjoin film studies with media and television studies, taking knowledge from all parts of visual production in the approach. with the growing technologies films are now concretely used to teach a reflection of culture and art around the world as a primary medium. due to the ever growing dynamic of film studies, a wide variety of curricula have emerged for analysis of critical approaches used in film. although each institution has the power to form the study material, students are usually expected to grasp a knowledge of conceptual shifts in film, a vocabulary for the analysis of film form and style, a sense of ideological dimensions of film, and an awareness of extra textual domains and possible direction of film in the future. although the study of film was already well established, star studies did not become the focus of serious, sustained academic research until the 1970s. it is established that film stars contribute fundamentally to the creation of meaning in a film text. it is for this reason that star studies has had a comparatively shorter, although not less productive, history than other areas of research within film studies. the chapter therefore discusses the role, significance and value of hollywood film stars within both our present society and the contemporary hollywood film industry. however, in order to fully appreciate the current state of the institution of hollywood stardom, it will also be necessary to briefly discuss its foundations and development, as well as the various ways in which stardom has routinely been analysed within the academic field of film studies. another major tradition in star studies draws upon semiotics and ideology critique in attempting to reveal the social significance of particular stars. theorists indebted to the tradition of ideology critique have argued that film stars take on a pedagogic function, instructing in socially preferred forms of being. without being role models in any banal or explicit sense, their personas are a particularly vivid part in ideological reproduction. john o. thompson has developed an effective means of recognizing and evaluation of star personas. ideology is sometimes identified as a body of ideas reflecting the social needs of an individual, group, class, and culture. in other words, ideology refers to a systematic worldview which defines our concepts of self and the relations of the self to the state or any form of the collectivism. ideology means belief systems and the principles inside these systems, even if these ideas are unrecognized and thereby perhaps unquestioned. we may know we are being controlled, but we accept the idea that the "good" of the system overrides the "bad," or we accept the notion that the system serves our needs well enough, even thought the ones we are working for make all the money. we go along with it, in effect consenting to the controls imposed on us by the state and civilization. usually, every movie presents us with ways of behaving negative and positive and therefore offers us an implied or explicit morality or ideology. every film has a slant based on the director's sense of right and wrong an ideological perspective that privileges certain characters, institutions, and cultures. recognize that films are products marketed to the public and that film-making may include a predisposition that many, if not most, people will respond in roughly parallel or identical ways to the material. films are market derived art. as our national character changes, the individual must also change, reinvent or perish. films in a particular way immortalize some characters and abstract concepts like love, masculinity, and individualism, myth, sacrifice, and heroic quest of national leaders. they also portray nationalism as a sacred place above the notion of family and love. this is logical propaganda given the demands of the world war. the advent of digital technology in the area of filmmaking and cinematic praxis has not only changed the art and poetics of film production but has also penetrated the sphere of historical, philosophical, institutional, and theoretical discourse. the pervasive digitalization of cinema in contemporary times, therefore, should go beyond technological and democratized advancement affecting film practices. this is an engaging moment in cinematic discourse that is birthing contending theoretical stakes and vicissitudes from media critics, film historians, academicians, film practitioners, and cultural theorists. the utilization of digital technology, may it be in commercial cinema, independent films or other media texts, has been a pivotal nexus that generated a reframing of representational and theoretical positions both in the field of cinematic poetics and knowledge production. cultural scholars, film historians, media critics, film practitioners, and academicians have contributed for growth and specialisations of film studies. scholarly works on the subject of digital cinema and other modes of investigation related to the film studies has grown exponentially in this decade. they aim to provide a venue for scholars and specialists in the field of cinematic and cultural discourse in order to re-examine and revaluate existing fields of inquiry, theoretical foundations and researches. it is without a doubt that the digitalization of cinema has spurred contending debates and differing positionalities among film audiences, scholars, film historians and media practitioners. digital divide, as a terminology and concept, does not simply refer to the aesthetic chasm sparked by the arrival of digital technology in cinema but rather as a moment of rupture that has stimulated historical and ideological critiques from varying vantage points and counter-points. the digitalization of cinema has created a protuberance on how the development of film as historical artifacts and social discourse should be understood and analyzed. it has been a site and sight of endless departures ranging from aesthetic experimentations, reframing of film historizations to the rethinking of existing modes of film production. the digitalization of cinema is an inherent reality that should be faced by scholars and practitioners of the field in order to traverse and envision the futures of cinema. abstract: economists are beginning to investigate the causes and consequences of financial illiteracy to better understand why retirement planning is lacking and why so many households arrive close to retirement with little or no wealth. our review reveals that many households are unfamiliar with even the most basic economic concepts needed to make saving and investment decisions. such financial illiteracy is widespread: the young and older people in the united states and other countries appear woefully under-informed about basic financial concepts, with serious implications for saving, retirement planning, mortgages, and other decisions. in response, governments and several nonprofit organizations have undertaken initiatives to enhance financial literacy. the experience of other countries, including a saving campaign in japan as well as the swedish pension privatization program, offers insights into possible roles for financial literacy and saving programs. abstract transport systems are key elements of urban areas, therefore their sustainability has a pivotal role in achieving complex urban sustainability. nowadays the assessment of urban sustainability is a hotspot in different scientific fields despite of lack of comprehensive and widely accepted definitions of both urban sustainability and sustainable transportation. the use of divergent indicators for evaluating sustainable urban transportation has been emerged as a core of urban studies. the main aims of this paper is to analyze sets of sustainable urban transport indicators developed in the scientific area worldwide, to collect variables for assessing urban transport sustainability in hungary, finally to do recommendations in order to be able to evaluate sustainability of transport systems in hungarian urban areas in a more effective manner. there is a steadily increasing number of international studies analysed sustainability indicators or created composite indices to evaluate transport systems in urban areas. variability of their aims and objectives cover a broad range from one-dimension analysis to interdisciplinary ones. in this paper, 18 studies were collected from north-america through south-america and europe to asia to collect variables regarding sustainable urban transport and to investigate the relationship between climaterelated and sustainability indicators in this field. all in all 535 variables were provided by analysed studies, some of them are overlapping with each other, but most of them are unique due to the divergent aims of those papers. this divergence indicates an important principle regarding urban planning, since features and related challenges vary from cities to cities, thus unique variables and composite indices shall be compiled. as a matter of fact, the last recommendation is moderately different from other ones, because comparability may not be identified as main aim of assessment of sustainability concerning divergent cities. the most relevant aim shall be the assessment of local features, therefore identification of weaknesses, barriers, strengths and opportunities regarding sustainability of a given city. however availability of indicators is better in case of local-specific indicators compared to use international ones. nevertheless comparability can be determined as a second level requirement of sustainability assessments in so far as it contributes to revealing best practices through divergent cities. there is no agreement in terms of both the definition of sustainable urban mobility, and the use, the collection, the number and the selection of related indicators as well. applied definitions and approaches regarding indicators mostly depend on the authors of different studies, therefore there is no coherence between set of indicators applied by these studies. moreover examined sectors and identified dimensions also vary greatly through transport related studies on urban scale. availability of indicators has been assigned as main barrier in the use of sustainability indicators, due to the divergent national and regional features of explanation of a given variable. as it could be seen in the previous sections, large number of authors cited this problem in the phase of indicator collection. however, mathematical-statistical methodologies, such as cluster, factor and correlation analyses have been efficiently and more widely applied for reducing amount of data need to assess complex system in lights of their sustainability. these statements are valid in hungary, where the hungarian central statistical office do not provide set of indicators regarding transport sector from sustainability point of view, although the pivotal role of mobility in urban sustainability is clearly defined. concerning the above mentioned, some recommendations have been made regarding measurement methodology, nevertheless implementation of them requires further scientific and financial investments both on national and regional scale. words, except when they are used artistically, are proxies for direct experience. they point us in a direction in which we can undergo what the words purport to reveal. words, in this sense, are like cues to guide us on a journey. the utility of these cues depends upon their ability to help us anticipate the situation we wish to avoid or encounter. the reason the deliteralization of knowledge is significant is that it opens the door for multiple forms of knowing. there are, indeed, propositions whose truth value is significant and whose claims are testable through scientific procedures. at the same time, there are utterances and images that are intended to be evocative of the situation they are designed to describe. consider photography. photographs can be powerful resources for portraying what cannot be articulated linguistically. we see this in the work of edward steichen, dorothea lange, paul strand, and other important photographers of the 20th century. but the ability to reveal is not limited to the talents of such photographers; it is available to those whose talents in photography are more ordinary. the point here is that humans have created within the context of culture a variety of forms of representation. these forms include the visual, the auditory, the gustatory, the kinesthetic, and the like. it includes forms of representation that combine the foregoing modalities as well. let us distinguish for a moment between the descriptive and the evocative. let the descriptive focus on the desire to create a mimetic relationship between something said and something done. the evocative has as its ambition the provision of a set of qualities that create an empathic sense of life in those who encounter it, whether the work is visual or linguistic, choreographic or musical. in all cases, emotion and imagination are involved. art in research puts a premium on evocation, even when it has sections or aspects of it that are descriptive in character. put another way, art is present in research when its presence enables one to participate vicariously in a situation. it is interesting to note the ways in which our language, riddled as it is with metaphors, describes affective states of affairs. we talk about being high or being low. we talk about being bright or being dull; we talk about being slow or being swift. our personal attributes are captured in the metaphors we choose or invent to describe them. it is through such descriptions, at least in part, that we enable others to understand how we feel and, indeed, enable us to recognize our own feelings. any talk about arts-informed research must take into account the characteristics of the particular art form or art forms that are being employed. music, for example, does not have the kind of referentiality that realism in the visual arts possesses. one can come to know the countenance of an individual or the feel of a place by the features of a realist painting. there is no comparable analogue in music. even program music, such as the william tell overture, is far less referential in character than what photo realists do in their work. some art forms such as opera or theatre combine art forms. it is not unusual for a stage production to involve not only color and light, but speech and music. these synthetic art forms have different potentialities in the execution of research and need to be taken into account in planning a research agenda. one might ask, if the arts are so diverse in their features and potentialities for research, do they have anything in common? just what is it that enables us to refer to all of them as forms of art? for me, the defining feature that allows us to talk collectively about the arts is that art forms share the common mission of achieving expressiveness through the ways in which form has been crafted or shaped. the arts historically have addressed the task of evoking emotion. we sometimes speak of the arts as resources that can take us on a ride. the arts, as i have indicated elsewhere, provide a natural high. they can also provide a natural low. the range of emotional responses is enormous. these emotional consequences in relation to a referent color the referent by virtue of the character of the emotion that the artistically crafted form possesses. through art we come to feel, very often, what we cannot see directly. this led them to regard as meaningful only propositions of an empirical kind that, in principle, could be proven through scientific procedures. for my taste, this is much too constrictive a conception of the kind of research criteria that are needed in the social sciences. if we indeed know more than we can tell, then we should try telling what we know with anything that will carry the message forward. it may be unrealistic to expect that someone without a background, say, in the visual arts, would be able to produce at a high enough level the quality of arts-informed research that was needed to warrant a doctoral degree. furthermore, such work, in my view, should have both a theoretical or conceptual basis and should manifest sophistication in the arts as an achievement that i mentioned earlier. it is particularly in this sense of diverse competencies that artsinformed research is not easier, but more difficult, to do than traditional approaches to research in the social sciences. is there a future for arts-informed research? one can only speculate about the conditions that would create such a possibility. one of those conditions pertains to the vigor of those committed to the exploration of the arts and the means through which they help enlarge human understanding. given the near revolutionary way in which the arts are being regarded as tools for research, i expect that there will be a variety of resistances to be encountered. these resistances need to be addressed by scholars committed to the idea and exploration of arts-informed research. short-term enthusiasts are hardly going to be able to provide the kind of leadership, indeed the kind of courage, that such an enterprise will require. what will also be required are places in universities where young scholars interested in pursuing arts-informed research can find a sympathetic home. the media lab at mit is a good example of how research might be pursued. scholars can bring to bear under one collective umbrella ideas about matters of meaning and communication, matters of technique, and matters pertaining to theoretical knowledge that can enrich the environment and yield truly remarkable products. to encourage such activity will require a modification of promotion criteria that are typically employed in most american universities, particularly in research universities. we typically expect pre-tenure productions to be solo, yet in the hardest of the sciences, physics, work is very often collaborative. indeed, without collaboration the work that needs to be done would not get done. the stanford linear accelerator, for example, is employed by people living at the other end of the world for purposes that are jointly shared with stanford university physicists. what this suggests is a new conception of who does research with whom, and what kind of research they do. the vision i am describing is considerably more collaborative, cooperative, multidisciplinary, and multimodal in character. knowledge creation is a social affair. finally, for the purposes of this chapter, the arts tell us something about our own capacities to experience the affective responses to life that the arts evoke. if the arts are about anything, they are about emotion, and emotion has to do with the ways in which we feel. becoming aware of our capacity to feel is a way of discovering our humanity. art helps us connect with personal, subjective emotions, and through such a process, it enables us to discover our own interior landscape. not an unimportant achievement. all of the processes that i have described contribute to the enlargement of human understanding. we cannot take such conditions or characteristics or feelings into account unless they are available either by our volition or by the impact of others upon us. we come to understand the world in many ways; the arts are among these many ways. their virtual absence in the methodology of educational research is a significant shortcoming in the ways in which we may be able to understand what goes on in classrooms and in schools, in conferences and in homes. the arts are a way of enriching our awareness and expanding our humanity. this, too, is not a bad consequence for a process so delicate but important. but every woman praying or prophesying with her head unveiled dishonoureth her head; for it is one and the same thing as if she were shaven. for if a woman is not veiled, let her also be shorn: but if it is a shame to a woman to be shorn or shaven, let her be veiled. for a man indeed ought not to have his head veiled, forasmuch as he is the image and glory of god: but the woman is the glory of the man. for the man is not of the woman; but the woman of the man: for neither was the man created for the woman; but the woman for the man: for this cause 20 ought the woman to have a sign of authority on her head, because of the angels. the question of the intersection between social meanings, court fashion and the marketplace becomes even more sensitive when we move from head to hands, a shift that allows us to test these interactions in different ways. accessories are highly visible in the many fulland half-length portraits that became increasingly common in the sixteenth century. some of what they offered to the viewer must have been based on pictorial conventions, but the sheer ubiquity of items such as gloves and fans is striking and is mirrored by their appearance in inventories where they were often given high values. this convergence represented a concrete educational space where learning possibilities were open to all participants. the educational space created was an opportunity for radical education, where the lessons to be learned from understanding the situation were available for all who had access to it. the spy suspected that the manifestation of this radical educational stance ultimately resulted in the premature closure of research activity, because changes to work practices occurred and the general manager ultimately threw the spy out of the organization. an example is the online word processing capabilities offered by google docs. one can send microsoft word documents over the internet, but google docs differs in that the document and software does not reside locally. the data and code is stored in the cloud using remote server farms with shared processors and memory. this is helpful because one does not have to worry about maintenance, outages, and software or hardware updates. the cloud also provides economies of scale and facilitates sharing of data across applications and users . large datasets can facilitate machine learning, as has been demonstrated in the context of computer vision. large-scale image datasets such as imagenet , pascal visual object classes dataset , and others , have been used for object and scene recognition. by leveraging trimble's sketchup 3d warehouse, lai et al. reduced the need for manually labeled training data . using community photo collections, gammeter et al. created an augmented reality application with processing in the cloud . combining internet images with querying a local human operator, hidago-pena et al. provided a more robust object learning technique . deep learning is a technique using many-layered neural networks that can take advantage of big data , and has been used for computer vision , and grasping . uncertainty in sensing, models, and control is a central issue in robotics and automation . such uncertainty can be modeled as perturbations in position, orientation, shape, and control. cloud computing is ideal for sample-based monte-carlo analysis. for example, parallel cloud computing can be used to compute the outcomes of the cross-product of many possible perturbations in object and environment pose, shape, and robot response to sensors and commands . this idea is being explored in medicine and particle physics . the success of open source software , is now widely accepted in the robotics and automation community. a primary example is ros, the robot operating system, which provides libraries and tools to help software developers create robot applications , , . ros has also been ported to android devices . ros has become a standard akin to linux and is now used by almost all robot developers in research and many in industry, with the ros industrial project created to support these users . the authors thank c. agero, a. aydemir, a. bayen, george bekey, k. bekris, d. berenson, g. bradski, m. ciocarlie, j. civera, s. cousins, d. culler, r. d'andrea, s. gentner, b. gerkey, e. guizzo, t. hunter, m. ani hsieh, v. isler, r. katz, j. kuffner, v. kumar, j. malec, m. mason, d. portugal, b. recht, l. riazuelo, j. salmern-garca, s. sarma, a. saxena, d. song, c. sutter, r. voyles, a. waibel, l. wang, and j. wiegley for ongoing insights and advice on this topic. moreover, they found no evidence that hydration involved any enhancement in the ordering of water molecules around the solute; rather, the hydrogen-bonded network seemed simply to maintain its structure, in particular by orienting water molecules such that the o-h bonds are tangential to the solute surface. there is no inconsistency between the occurrence of such orientational effects and the lack of any enhancement in structure, since we must bear in mind that the hydrogen-bonded network introduces directional preferences in local water orientation even in the bulk. otherwise a fluid layer remains between the solute surfaces, albeit with a density significantly lower than that of the bulk liquid. this situation is nevertheless associated with strong hydrophobic forces, showing that complete drying is not essential to promote an attractive interaction. how water dynamics might be affected within a hydrophobic depletion layer is another matter, which has received little attention. dokter et al. 103 found that nanodroplets in reverse micelles, where the interface is not hydrophobic but is thought nonetheless to have decreased hydrogen bonding, have slow orientational dynamics and relatively immobile water molecules in the interfacial layer. jensen et al. also found retarded dynamics in simulations of water next to a hydrophobic surface. 104 as we will see below, a significant change in rotational dynamics in this region could have implications for the hydrophobic interaction itself. it has suggested that correlated charge or dipole fluctuations on the two surfaces might lead to a long-ranged electrostatic interaction, in a manner that makes no direct appeal to water structure per se. 138-140 recently, despa and berry141 have refined this perspective by considering the effects of the apparent orientational ordering of water molecules at hydrophobic surfaces46,104 and the concomitant retardation of relaxation dynamics. 142 they suggest that the resulting slow reorientation of water dipoles at the surface will give rise to strong coupling and correlations between them, creating a polarization field that will induce a dipole at the hydrophobic surface. in this view, that the long-range attraction between two such surfaces is thus electrostatic, arising from induced dipole-dipole interactions. bubble coalescence should be influenced by a long-ranged interaction between hydrophobic surfaces. it appears to be suppressed by ions,159 but in a selective manner: certain combinations of anions and cations have this effect, whereas others do not. 160 this is deeply perplexing, and there is no known explanation for it. since salts in general decrease the surface tension of water, they would be expected to reduce coalescence; indeed, this has been proposed as the explanation for the foaminess of seawater relative to pure water. but the fact that some electrolytes apparently do not have this effect is truly strange. craig et al. 160 suggested that coalescence might be somehow mediated by the long-ranged hydrophobic attraction, which salts might modify in an ionspecific way related to hofmeister effects. but if this attraction is itself to arise from bubble formation or coalescence, then the argument becomes circular, and one might instead elect to invert the argument and explain the reduction of the long-ranged attraction in the presence of salts such as kbr and mgso4 by the salt effect on bubble coalescence. but atomistic simulations of the folding of the sh3 protein domain have revealed that the process may depend on a rather gradual, molecule-by-molecule expulsion of water from the collapsed interior. 198-200 these studies characterize folding as a two-stage process: first, collapse to a near-native structure that retains a partially hydrated hydrophobic core, followed by slower expulsion of the residual water. this water might play the part of a lubricant to enable the hydrophobic core to find its optimally packed state. moreover, some water molecules typically remain in the core, hydrogen-bonded to the peptide backbone. nmr evidence suggests that the sh3 domain of the drk protein of drosophila indeed may adopt a collapsed but loosely structured conformation. 201,202 this challenges the picture presented by lum et al. 80 and ten wolde and chandler84 of an abrupt, collective drying transition as the water is confined between basically hydrophobic surfaces. the existence of discrete water-binding sites on a protein surface may not necessarily imply that they are occupied by water molecules. makarov et al. 212 found that, even though several hundred such sites could be identified in simulations of myoglobin, only about half of them were typically occupied at any time. this led them to propose that an atomistic representation of tightly bound waters on a protein surface may not in general be appropriate and that instead a continuous density distribution model of the hydration waters is more suitable. moreover, the residence times of water molecules in specific hydration sites does not seem to depend in any simple way on the nature of the residue to which they bindsits polarity or hydrogen-bonding ability, for example. 212,213 in the simulations of makarov et al. , these residence times seemed to depend almost exclusively on the geometry of the protein surface: hydration waters with long residence times were those within clefts and cavities, implying that steric hindrance to diffusion is the key factor. if indeed one of the roles of the hydration water is to actively excite protein dynamics via liquid-state fluctuations, we might ask whether there is anything special about water that enables thissafter all, fluctuations occur in any liquid. that is to say, are there features of water that make the dynamics of the hydration shell qualitatively different from those of a solvation layer in a simple liquid, for example because of cooperative effects stemming from the hydrogenbonded network? are these fluctuations any different from those that take place in the bulk liquid? and do hydrogen bonding or other aspects of water structure promote coupling to the protein? 267 in other words, it is not simply the case that water molecules can bridge two proteins: such contacts can be imbued with significant information content that allows the interactions to be discriminating. thus, protein surfaces in a sense extend the range of their influence via their hydration shells. these water-mediated interactions may be optimal when they involve two oppositely charged groups, such as an acid-base pair, where the apparently favorable coulombic interaction of a direct contact is offset by a large gibbs energy penalty to the complete desolvation of the charges that would be required to make such a contact. rearrangement of bound water molecules has been implicated as a significant factor in protein-carbohydrate interactions,285,286 but has generally been discussed in terms of the displacement of loosely bound, disordered water from the protein surface, again providing both enthalpic and entropic benefits in returning these molecules to the liquid phase. clarke et al. ,287 however, found that displacement of ordered water from the binding site can have subtle effects on substrate selectivity in such interactions that depend on a delicate balance between entropic and enthalpic effects. more generally, the release of bound water on ligand binding is often assessed via scoring functions that aim to evaluate the effect of particular recognition motifs on the binding affinity. friesner and co-workers have pointed out, however, that such scoring procedures seem inadequate for describing the contributions of two motifs in particular: strongly hydrophobic cavities enclosing water clusters and the formation of hydrogen bonds at sites enclosed by hydrophobic groups. 301 young et al. have shown that the hydration of the binding cavities is particularly perturbed in such cases, imposing unusually large entropic and enthalpic penalties and thereby stabilizing the protein-ligand complex. 302 this accounts, for example, for the large binding affinity of the streptavidin-biotin complex. young et al. propose that these motifs are attractive targets for drug design. something similar is observed in the allosteric regulation of oxygen binding to hemoglobin. the hemoglobin of the mollusk scapharca inaequivalvis is dimeric, and the interface of the subunits contains a cluster of 17 well-ordered water molecules. in contrast to mammalian hemoglobin, where the cooperativity of oxygen binding is due to marked changes in the quaternary structure of the hemoglobin complex, in the hemoglobin of scapharca this cooperativity seems to stem from more subtle structural changes. in particular, oxygenation is accompanied by loss of six of the ordered interfacial water molecules. royer et al. 306 found that these waters have a central role in cooperative oxygen binding, enabling allosteric interactions between the subunits by acting as a kind of transmission unit. the water cluster helps to stabilize the low-affinity form of the protein, whereas a mutant form that lacks two of the hydrogen bonds from this cluster tends to adopt the high-affinity conformation instead. many proteins contain hydrophobic cavities in their cores. but these are not necessarily dry, or even water-repelling. in a high-pressure crystallographic study of a mutant of t4 lysozyme containing a highly hydrophobic cavity, collins et al. 307 find that only modest pressure will enable four water molecules to enter this space and that the free-energy penalty of filling such cavities can be small or even zero. they suggest that this might help to account for the pressureinduced denaturation of most proteins. these one-dimensional proton wires have been modeled by considering the water-filled hydrophobic channels of carbon nanotubes. 343-347 dellago et al. 344 calculate using ab initio md that the proton mobility along one-dimensional water chains inside a nanotube can be enhanced by the ordering imposed by confinement and may be about 40 times greater than that in bulk water, if no hydrogen-bonding defects are present in the chain. this conclusion was anticipated in calculations by brewer et al. , who found enhanced proton diffusion within narrow, smooth, cylindrical hydrophobic pores. 348 increasing confinement here promotes mobility by organizing the water molecules into a onedimensional proton wire and by preventing stabilization of the protonated center through hydration. 373 chen et al. 370 show that this can be explained by invoking three contributhe tions to the free-energy barrier for proton transport: bipolar field,372 electrostatic repulsion by arg-195, and the dehydration penalty imposed by the narrow neck of the pore. the first of these contributes about half of the gibbsenergy barrier to proton permeation, and this barrier does not seem to be significantly lowered for protons, relative to other cations, by their unique ability to delocalize their charge in zundel-type configurations. 371 this dominant influence of electrostatics on gating is supported by simulations of water permeation through a carbon nanotube. 374 when a positive charge is introduced at the midpoint of the nanotube and just outside of the tube wall, it may induce reorientation of water molecules in a single-file chain threading through the tube so as to produce an l defect. although the presence of cations ions in the minor groove seems to be supported both by experiment417,418 and by theory,419,420 chiu et al. 421 have questioned the notion of sequence-specific ion-binding sites and their role in modifying dna structure, arguing instead that short-ranged interactions between the nucleotide bases account for sequencedependent variations in local structure. the issue remains unresolved; the md simulations of hamelberg et al. 422 do seem to show that interactions of ions and water in the minor groove narrow its width, whereas those of ponomarev et al. 423 show no significant correlations between the width of the groove and the presence of ions. this was a deliberately provocative statement, and was as much about trying to raise the profile of translation studies as it was about declaring comparative literature to be defunct. today, looking back at that proposition, it appears fundamentally flawed: translation studies has not developed very far at all over three decades and comparison remains at the heart of much translation studies scholarship. what i would say were i writing the book today is that neither comparative literature nor translation studies should be seen as a discipline: rather both are methods of approaching literature, ways of reading that are mutually beneficial. the crisis in comparative literature derived from excessive prescriptivism combined with distinctive culturally specific methodologies that could not be universally applicable or relevant. spivak rejects the notion of globalisation in favour of an imagined planetarity, but the discourse of global flows can be helpful for comparatists. the patterns of exchange and transfer that happen in literary and philosophical movements can be compared to the shifting patterns of global information flows, which means that theories of cultural capital and its transmission can be a productive comparative method. significantly, the celebration of particular events which brings together scholars working across a broad range of diverse disciplines can also be very productive, and indeed represents the best of comparative scholarship. the conference held in lisbon in november 2005 to commemorate the two hundred and fiftieth anniversary of the earthquake that destroyed the city on all saints day in 1755 was a model of interdisciplinarity and comparativism. the impact of these poems was such that on the one hand they could serve as models for a new generation of poets struggling to make the horrors of war a proper subject for poetry, while on the other hand they established a benchmark for future translators because they set the parameters in the minds of english-language readers of what chinese poetry could do. the object of the comparative literature scholar is therefore to see these poems in a context and to compare them with other kinds of war poetry being produced at the same time. cathay is interesting because it highlights the way in which translation can serve as a force for literary renewal and innovation. this is one of the ways in which translation studies research has served comparative literature well; whereas once translation was regarded as a marginal area within comparative literature, now it is acknowledged that translation has played a vital role in literary history and that great periods of literary innovation tend to be preceded by periods of intense translation activity. similarly, when kemal ataturk led the turkish modernisation programme in the 1920s, central to his thinking was the systematic translation of what were perceived to be key foundation texts of western culture. through translation come new ideas, new genres and new forms, so it is extraordinary that for so long comparative literature as a field of study did not acknowledge the importance of research into the history of translation. the future of comparative literature lies in jettisoning attempts to define the object of study in any prescriptive way and in focussing instead on the idea of literature, understood in the broadest possible sense, and in recognising the inevitable interconnectedness that comes from literary transfer. no single european literature can be studied in isolation, nor should european scholars shrink from reassessing the legacy they have inherited. there is a great deal to learn from the perspectives of southern hemisphere scholars, principle of which is the shift in perspective that their views inevitably incite, but it is important not to lose sight of where we, as europeans, stand in relation to our own literary history. that history involves translation as a crucial means of enabling information flow, hence the need to position the history of translation centrally within any comparative literary study. significantly, since writers are always a good twenty or so years ahead of literary critics, more and more contemporary writers across europe are looking back to literature of previous ages, engaging with it, rewriting it, using it as a way of interrogating the world in which they move. hopefully, literary scholars will follow where they lead, and will abandon pointless debates about terminology and definition, to focus more productively on the study of texts themselves, mapping the history of writing and reading across cultural and temporal boundaries. this article urges counseling psychology researchers to recognize and report how missing data are handled, because consumers of research cannot accurately interpret findings without knowing the amount and pattern of missing data or the strategies that were used to handle those data. patterns of missing data are reviewed, and some of the common strategies for dealing with them are described. the authors provide an illustration in which data were simulated and evaluate 3 methods of handling missing data: mean substitution, multiple imputation, and full information maximum likelihood. results suggest that mean substitution is a poor method for handling missing data, whereas both multiple imputation and full information maximum likelihood are recommended alternatives to this approach. the authors suggest that researchers fully consider and report the amount and pattern of missing data and the strategy for handling those data in counseling psychology research and that editors advise researchers of this expectation. in three articles no mention was made of missing data, but tables suggested that all participants were included in all analyses. tables in another article did not include ns, and no mention was made of missing data in the text; this research involved the administration of multiple measures, and it is difficult to imagine that every item was completed by every participant. in yet another article, no mention of missing data was made in the text, but inspection of the tables revealed that missing data existed. median replacement was used in one study, except when a large number of missing data points were found on one variable, in which case regression imputation was the method used; a justification for those decisions was not provided. an additional article noted that missing values were deleted pairwise, with no explanation for that decision. an additional control logic is implemented that enables the yaw brake once the nacelle gets in the desired position. whenever the yaw reference is changed, the brake is released and the pi controller ensures that the nacelle is yawed to the new position. besides constant yaw references, the yaw controller is also capable of continuous yaw motion, such as a harmonic function with adjustable amplitude and frequency. such a motion can be useful for wind farm control algorithms or for the generation of wake meandering in the wind tunnel. abstract we examine the key factors driving change in energy use globally over the past four decades. our econometric approach is robust to the presence of unit roots, unobserved time effects, and spatial effects. we test for both strong decoupling where economic growth has less effect on energy use as income increases, and weak decoupling where energy use declines over time in richer countries, ceteris paribus. our key findings are that the growth of per capita energy use has been primarily driven by economic growth, convergence in energy intensity and weak decoupling. there is no sign of strong decoupling. these factors may result in parental resistance or perceptions of resistance to change on the part of teachers and other school staff. it is difficult to be open with schools about mental health problems, and parents may be uncertain about how much to reveal to schools about their home life when difficulties arise. finally, physical distance between home and school as well as time restraints serve as barriers to effective communication and collaboration between families and schools. there are similar barriers between parents and the treating physician. parents often enter treatment situations for their children with limited knowledge of medication and treatment options. they may have different expectations for their children than the physicians do, leading to miscommunication. parents can experience resistance in interacting with the physician because they are unsure about placing their children on medication or are unsure about seeking medical help at all. finally, as in the interaction between parents and the school system, distance and time can impede collaborative efforts. abstract computationalism has been the mainstream view of cognition for decades. there are periodic reports of its demise, but they are greatly exaggerated. this essay surveys some recent literature on computationalism and reaches the following conclusions. computationalism is a family of theories about the mechanisms of cognition. the main relevant evidence for testing computational theories comes from neuroscience, though psychology and ai are relevant too. computationalism comes in many versions, which continue to guide competing research programs in philosophy of mind as well as psychology and neuroscience. although our understanding of computationalism has deepened in recent years, much work in this area remains to be done. computationalism becomes most interesting when it has explanatory power. the most relevant and explanatory notion of computation is that associated with digital computers. computers perform impressive feats. they solve mathematical problems, play difficult games, prove logical theorems, etc. perhaps cognitive systems work like computers. to a first approximation, this analogy between computers and cognitive systems is the original motivation behind computationalism. the resulting form of computationalism is a strong hypothesis, one that should be open to empirical testing. to understand it further, it will help to take a historical step back. i am grateful for the generous support i received from the gladys krieble delmas foundation, the samuel h. kress foundation, the cosmos club foundation, and the p. e. o. sisterhood that allowed me to spend time in venice to carry out the necessary research for this project. i would also like to thank kim butler, anthony colantuono, and colette crossman for their thorough and valuable comments on for their insightful recomearlier adaptations of this manuscript, as well as the readers at mendations. 63 while an altar may not have been present in most venetian dwellings, a good number of households did possess items that paralleled the consecrated apparatuses utilized in the celebration of the eucharist, such as linens, candles, plates and goblets. a kind of makeshift altar could thus be fashioned through the combination of ordinary household items and furniture with spiritually charged images and objects. 74 the persistent, and even increased, presence of pious goods within the domestic sphere throughout the cinquecento offers testimony to the resilient faith of the people of venice. 76 given the large numbers of prophylactic images and objects listed in household inventories, similar principles of piety appear to have applied to domestic space. sacred images afforded protection for the home and those who dwelled there, defending the devout from evil, illness, and sudden death, a fate to be avoided at all costs for it meant dying without confession and last rites, and the threat of purgatory. contents introduction. the shape of current thought on sustainable development part i. economic theory and sustainable development introduction chapter 1 moving to a steady-state economy chapter 2 elements of environmental macroeconomics chapter 3 consumption: value added, physical transformation, and welfare part ii. operational policy and sustainable development introduction chapter 4 operationalizing sustainable development by investing in natural capital chapter 5 fostering environmentally sustainable development: four parting suggestions for the world bank part iii. national accounts and sustainable development introduction chapter 6 toward a measure of sustainable net national product chapter 7 on sustainable development and national accounts part iv. population and sustainable development introduction chapter 8 carrying capacity as a tool of development policy: the ecuadoran amazon and the paraguayan chaco chapter 9 marx and malthus in northeast brazil: a note on the world's largest class difference in fertility and its recent trends part v. international trade and sustainable development introduction chapter 10 free trade and globalization vs. environment and community chapter 11 from adjustment to sustainable development: the obstacle of free trade part vi. some would like to abandon the concept of sustainable development altogether, arguing that it adds nothing to standard economics and is too vague to ever be useful. 1 but most important concepts are not subject to analytically precise definition think of democracy, justice, welfare, for example. important concepts are more dialectical than analytic, in the sense that they have evolving penumbras which partially overlap with their "other. " analytic concepts have no overlap with their other, so the law of contradiction holds that is, b cannot be both a and non-a. but for dialectical concepts there are cases in which it makes sense to say that b is both a and non-a. 2 for example, there is an age at which we are both young and old; a tidal salt marsh is both land and sea; a credit card is both money and non-money. if all our concepts were analytic we could not deal with change and evolution. analytically defined species could never evolve if they at no time and in no way overlapped with their other. the classical economists thought that the economy would naturally end up in the stationary state, with wages at a subsistence level and the surplus all going to landlords as rent, with nothing left over for the capitalist's profit, and therefore no motive for further growth. most of the classical economists dreaded the stationary state as the end of progress, but mill welcomed it, recognizing that "a stationary condition of capital and population implies no stationary state of human improvement," and that in fact there would be more likelihood of "improving the art of living . . . when minds ceased to be engrossed by the art of getting on. " unlike many classical economists, mill believed that the laws governing production did not rigidly determine distribution so that the subsistence-level wage was not a necessary feature of the stationary state. in today's jargon, mill was arguing for sustainable development without growth that is, qualitative improvement without quantitative increase. but mill's writings on the stationary state were forgotten, and most economics ph. d. might such expansion destroy the ecological capacity of the earth to support life in the future? perhaps, because such a ''liquidation" can be "optimal" in the economists' models. the dominant model excludes ecological costs altogether, but even those models that recognize ecological costs, if they are based on present value maximization, also can lead to "optimal" liquidation. the higher the discount rate, the sooner the liquidation. this anomaly sometimes makes neoclassical economists uneasy, but not always. their usual assumption is that additional manmade capital substitutes for liquidated natural resources. one place where reality is forcing reconsideration of these models is in the world bank, probably the world's largest and most generous employer of economists. certainly the world bank would be the proper institution to recognize the ecological contradictions in the world's economic development plans, and to call attention to the need for the north to stop growth in resource throughput in order to both reserve for the people of the south the remaining ecological space needed for growth to satisfy their vital needs and set a generalizable and replicable example of sustainable development. the world bank's best opportunity to date for doing this was through its 1992 world development report, entitled development and the environment. i worked in the environment department of the world bank during that time, and although i was not part of the team that wrote the report, i did have an opportunity to comment on various early drafts and to observe the whole effort from close range. while the 1992 report made a number of contributions, especially in calling attention to the public health consequences of the environmental degradation of water and air, it nevertheless failed to address the biggest question. environmental deterioration was held to be mainly a consequence of poverty, and the solution proposed was the same as the world bank's solution to other economic problems, namely more growth. and this meant not only growth in the south, but also in the north, for how else could the south grow if it could not export to northern markets and receive foreign investments from the north? and how could the north provide foreign investment and larger markets for the south if it in turn did not grow? while the world bank's report acknowledged a few conflicts between growth and environment here and there, the world was seen to be full of "win-win" opportunities for both increasing growth as usual and improving the environment. the evolution of the manuscript of development and the environment is revealing. an early draft contained a diagram entitled "the relationship between the economy and the environment. " it consisted of a square labeled "economy," with an arrow coming in labeled "inputs" and an arrow going out labeled "outputs"nothing more. i suggested that the picture failed to show the environment, and that it would be good to have a large box containing the one depicted, to represent the environment. then the relation between the environment and the economy would be clear specifically, that the economy is a subsystem of the environment and depends upon the environment both as a source of raw material inputs and as a "sink'' for waste outputs. reflecting on these two experiences has reinforced my belief that the main issue in the sustainable development controversy truly does revolve around what economist joseph schumpeter called "preanalytic vision. " my preanalytic vision of the economy as subsystem leads immediately to the questions, how big is the subsystem relative to the total system? how big can it be without disrupting the functioning of the total system? how big should it be? what is its optimal scale beyond which further growth would be antieconomic, would cost more than it's worth? the world bank's chief economist had no intention of being sucked into addressing these subversive questions, so he dismissed the viewpoint that gave rise to them. i believe we are at that point today. but the world bank cannot say that at least not yet. it cannot acknowledge limits to growth because growth is seen as the solution to poverty. historically there is a lot of truth in this view. if we now recognize that growth is physically limited, or even economically limited in that it is beginning to cost more than it is worth at the margin, then how will we lift poor people out of poverty? the answer is painfully simple: by population control, by redistribution of wealth and income, and by technical improvements in resource productivity. in sum, not by growth, but by development. however, in most circles population control and redistribution are considered politically impossible. increasing resource productivity is considered a good idea until it conflicts with capital and labor productivity, until we realize that in the developed countries we have bought high productivity and high incomes for capital and labor and thus a reduction in class conflict by using resources lavishly, in other words, by sacrificing resource productivity. in the end, the world bank's report development and the environment proved unable to face the most basic question: is it better or worse for the south if the north continues to grow in its own resource use? the standard answer is that it is better because growth in the north increases markets for southern exports, as well as funds for aid and investment by the north in the south. the alternative view is that northern growth makes things worse by preempting the remaining resources and ecological space needed to support economic growth in the south up to a sufficient level, and that it also increases global income inequality and world political tensions. this view urges continued development in the north, but not growth. these two answers to the basic question cannot both be right. and the absence of that fundamental question from world bank's policy research represents a failure of both nerve and intellect, as well as a continuing psychology of denial regarding limits to growth. the right to peaceable assembly is a good thing, but it is not useful to include all good things in the definition of sustainable development. the term had acquired such vogue that everyone felt that their favorite cause had to be a part of the definition or else be implicitly condemned to oblivion, and this natural confusion was abetted by those in the bank who wanted to keep the concept vague, to dull its sharp edges enough to keep it from cutting into business as usual that is, pushing loans in the interest of export-led growth and global integration. it has, of course, occurred to me that maybe the orthodox economists are right, and that perhaps we dissidents really are looking at things in the wrong way. so i do try from time to time to see things in the light of their preanalytic vision, and in the light of other visions as well. it requires effort to go against my basic "default settings," and i am sure the same is true for the growth economists. but let me share some reflections on alternative visions for integrating economics and ecology, for relating the subsystem to the total system. there are, i believe, three alternative strategies for integrating the economy and the ecosystem that have been discussed in the public forum. 8 first, the strategy of "economic imperialism," in which the subsystem, the economy, expands until everything is included. the subsystem becomes identical to the total system, everything is economy and everything has a price. internalization of externalities has been carried to the limit and nothing remains external to the economy. this seems to be the implicit strategy of neoclassical economics. the second strategy is to shrink the economy boundary to nothing so that everything is ecosystem. this i call ecological reductionism. all human valuations and choices are held to be explicable by the same evolutionary forces of chance and necessity that presumably control the natural world. relative values correspond to embodied energy content, and economies, like ecosystems, are governed by the dictates of survival. some follow this position to its logical conclusion, and view or at least affect to view human extinction as no more significant than the extinction of any other species. this seems to be the implicit strategy of those many biologists and ecologists who operate on a philosophy of scientific materialism. the third strategy is the one adopted hereto view the economy as a subsystem of the ecosystem and to recognize that while it is not exempt from natural laws, neither is it fully reducible to explanation by them. the human economy cannot be reduced to a natural system. there is more to the idea of value than embodied energy or survival advantage. but neither can the economy subsume the entire natural system under its managerial dominion of efficient allocation. this vision of the earth as an alchemist's centrally planned terrarium, with nothing wild or spontaneous but everything base transformed into gold, into its highest instrumental value for humans, is a sure recipe for disaster. we cannot get rid of the subsystem boundary, either by expanding it to include the whole system or by collapsing it to include nothing. too many critical distinctions are lost in either strategy. therefore we must be concerned with drawing the boundary properly so that we include neither too much nor too little, so that we include and exclude the right things. the council is to be commended for coming up with an initial list of principles and inviting comment, even though fifteen principles, where two or three would have sufficed, does not inspire confidence. it is not easy to get consensus on such a difficult issue from such a diverse committee, one which by design and necessity includes members of many different interest groups. getting consensus on a principle frequently requires reduction of the principle to vacuity the less you say, the less there is to disagree with. and the less each principle says, the greater is the felt need to add another principle. still, the council came up with some principles that, while not crystal clear and specific, are not totally vacuous either. and even if some do appear a bit empty or repetitive, this is a further invitation for citizens to provide additional specificity and content, and thus further the discussion. below i quote each of the fifteen principles, and add a brief comment aimed at moving the principle toward more specificity and clarity. in most cases my comment would not receive the consensus accorded the original principle precisely because of the added specificity. although it would be possible to impose a stricter order on the discussion than the one inherent in these fifteen principles, i think it is important to accept them as our framework, even if a loose one, in order to see the extent of present consensus and understanding in all its incompleteness, and to avoid any possible misrepresentation by paraphrase or summary. references to discussions in the remaining chapters of the book that are relevant to some of the principles helps to fill out the introductory function of this essay. yes, the market should certainly be the main mechanism for solving the problem of efficient allocation of resources. there are two prior problems that have to be solved politically as the precondition for the market to work in this way. we must politically and socially limit the total scale of resource throughput for key resources to a level that is sustainable. this provides a sustainable scale. second, the rights to deplete or pollute up to the scale limit are no longer free goods, but valuable assets. who owns them? the just distribution of initial ownership has to be settled socially. only after these context questions of a sustainable scale and a just distribution have been settled socially can the individualistic market solve the question of efficient allocation. we must use the market to solve the allocation question, but we cannot expect it to solve the scale and distribution questions. this is crucial. for clarity we should add, ". . . support its inhabitants at a level of per capita wealth sufficient for a good life. " we cannot precisely define "a good life," but most would agree with malthus that it should be such as to permit one to have a glass of wine and a piece of meat with one's dinner. even if one is a teetotaler or a vegetarian that level of affluence is desirable, and would serve by itself to rule out populations at or above today's level. what really must be stabilized is total consumption, which of course is population times per capita consumption. both of the latter factors must be reduced. the nation, not the earth, will be the effective unit in which population and consumption are controlled. different nations will make different choices: some will not control either population or consumption, others will. of those that do control total consumption, some will choose high per capita consumption and low population, others will choose the reverse. free migration, or even free trade with free capital mobility, will undercut any national policies of self-discipline and restraint in consumption and population growth. the current thrust toward economic globalization is, short of the unappealing prospect of world government, likely to be contrary to sustainable development. setting a successful national example for possible emulation may be the best contribution our own nation can make toward global sustainable development. the goal of preserving the range of choice of the present for future generations is certainly central to sustainable development, but it cannot be effected by piecemeal individualistic consideration of the effect of all micro economic and environmental decisions on the future. protecting the range of options for the future has to be a macro, social decision, effected through a macro policy such as limiting the scale of throughput. urging individuals to consider the future generations in their personal economic decisions is necessary but not sufficient. irreducible uncertainty about the environmental effects of new technologies or substances are real economic costs. like other costs, they should be included in the price and paid for by the consumer of the commodity that has imposed the cost, rather than thrown on the general public. this could be better accomplished by requiring an assurance bond in the amount of possible damage, to be posted up front and then returned over time as experience reduces the uncertainty about damage. currently the burden of uncertainty is too much borne by the public at large. our liability laws operate only after the fact, and even then inability to pay is frequent. yes. some specific changes have been suggested in my comments here on these fifteen principles. while conduct or behavior needs to change, frequently the underlying principle remains the same. for example, it is an accepted principle in economics that in accounting income we must deduct for depreciation of capital in order to keep productive capacity intact. this principle remains, and only needs to be extended to natural capital as well as manmade. depletion of natural capital is a cost and should be counted in the macro system of national accounts, in micro project evaluation, and in the international balance of payments. i will end this introductory essay with some reflections on the rather low sense of urgency and level of ethical motivation inspired by sustainable development in the world bank, academia, the u. s. government, and most other national governments. of course there are individual exceptions in each of these domains, prophetic voices that cry in the wilderness. but why do these cries evoke so little response in so much wilderness? what is required to break out of our default position of denial? this resulted, in may of 1992, in the "joint appeal by science and religion on the environment," led by the eminent scientists carl sagan, edward o. wilson, and stephen jay gould, along with a few religious leaders, and hosted by then senator al gore. the three scientists are quite well known for their affirmations of scientific materialism and consequent renunciations of any religious interpretation of the cosmos, as well as for their highly informed and genuine concern about the environment. their rationale for courting the religious community was that while science had the understanding on which to proceed, it lacked the moral inspiration to act and to inspire others to act. or, in a frequently used metaphor, religion was asked to supply the moral compass, while science would supply the vehicle. . . . the well-intended effort by the skeptics to co-opt the moral enthusiasm of the religious for the sake of ecology is especially puzzling, in view of the fact that it is only because believers take their religious symbols and ideas to be disclosive of the truth of reality that they are aroused to moral passion in the first place. if devotees thought that their religions were not representative of the way things really are, then the religions would be ethically impotent. . . . it is hard to imagine how any thorough transformation of the habits of humans will occur without a corporate human confidence in the ultimate worthwhileness of our moral endeavors. and without a deep trust in reality itself, ecological morality will, i am afraid, ultimately languish and die. such trust . . . must be grounded in a conviction that the universe carries a meaning, or that it is the unfolding of a "promise". a commonly held sense that the cosmos is a significant process, that it unfolds something analogous to what we humans call "purpose", is, i think an essential prerequisite of sustained global and intergenerational commitment to the earth's well-being. 11 haught's point, of course, is that sagan, wilson, and gould proclaim the cosmology of scientific materialism, which considers the cosmos an absurd accident, and life within it to be no more than another accident ultimately reducible to dead matter in motion. in their view there is no such thing as value in any objective sense, or purpose, beyond short-term survival and reproduction, which are purely instinctual and thus ultimately mechanical. calling for a moral compass in such a world is as absurd as calling for a magnetic compass in a world in which you proclaim that there is no such thing as magnetic north. a sensitive compass needle is worthless if there is no external lure toward which it is pulled. a morally sensitive person in a world in which there is no lure of objective value to pull and persuade this sensitized person toward itself is like the compass needle with no external magnetic force to act on it. gould himself has noted, "we cannot win this battle to save species and environments without forging an emotional bond between ourselves and nature as well for we will not fight to save what we do not love. " 12 but is it possible to love an accident? rather, is it possible for an accident to love an accident? for an accident to fight to save another accident? i doubt it, but i do not doubt that it is possible for people who call themselves scientific materialists to fall in love with the world they study and have come to know intimately. god's world is lovable, and scientists often fall in love with it much more deeply than theologians! but should they not confess that love, and ask themselves how it is that they could have fallen in love with something their science tells them is an accident? in their daily life are they particularly fond of random events, or do they find them annoying? during the meeting in washington, d. c. , of the joint appeal, the void of purpose was frequently glossed over in discussions with the phrase "for our children. " but of course if we are accidents then so are they, and the dilemma is not resolved by pushing it one generation forward. i recall that one woman was evidently so annoyed by the sentimentality of this constant and cloying invocation of "our children" that she took the microphone to say that she had no children, and was she to understand, therefore, that she had no reason to care about the future of god's creation? i believe the woman was a reporter or photographer, not even an official participant, but i thought her intervention was on target. to read some biologists you would think that whoever does not manage to propel their genes into the next generation might as well never have lived! for the above reasons i felt that it was absolutely necessary to include part 7, on religion and ethics, in this book, in addition to the other more usual sections on economic theory, operational policy, national accounts, population, international trade, and the recent history of economic thought on sustainability. i put this topic last not because i think it least important! think it is most important but because i am least qualified to deal with it, and because in our society, where political correctness has come to include an antireligious attitude, it will likely be the most controversial part. as a strategy of building consensus it is probably good to keep the most controversial issues for last, even if they are ultimately the most important. but it would be quite dishonest not to bring them up at all. sustainability has had a hard time breaking into economic theory because the economics of the past fifty years has been overwhelmingly devoted to economic growth. the term "economic growth" has in practice meant growth in gross national product. all problems are to be solved, or at least ameliorated, by an ever growing gnp. it is the only magnitude in all of economics that is expected to grow forever never to reach an economic limit at which the marginal costs of in microeconomics every enterprise has an optimal scale beyond which it should not grow. but when we aggregate all microeconomic units into the macroeconomy, the notion of an optimal scale, beyond which further growth becomes antieconomic, disappears completely! there are several reasons for this. first, all microeconomic activities are seen as parts of a larger whole, and it is the relationship to the larger whole that limits the scale of the part to some proper or optimal size. the macroeconomy is not seen as a part of anything larger rather it is the whole. it can grow forever, and by so doing it removes the temporary constraints on each of its sectors that result from bottlenecks imposed by shortages in other complementary sectors of the economy. as long as the proportions are right, the total, and its parts, can grow forever. each firm may still reach an optimal scale due to managerial limits, but the industry or sector can grow forever by adding new firms. prices measure relative scarcity and guide us in keeping everything in the right proportion relative to everything else but there is no recognition of any absolute scarcity limiting the scale of the macroeconomy. the chapters of part i are based on the preanalytic vision that the macroeconomy is not the whole, but is itself a subsystem of a larger finite and nongrowing ecosystem, and consequently that the macroeconomy too has an optimal scale. a necessary requirement for this optimal scale is that the economy's throughput the flow beginning with raw material inputs, followed by their conversion into commodities, and finally into waste outputsbe within the regenerative and absorptive capacities of the ecosystem. the whole idea of sustainable development is that the economic subsystem must not grow beyond the scale at which it can be permanently sustained or supported by the containing ecosystem. the value of services increases, but the matter and energy required for those services diminishes. in this book such qualitative improvement in the state of the arts is referred to as "development"; increasing the number of computers, of whatever vintage, is referred to as "growth. " gnp accounting does not distinguish growth from development both lead to an increase in the gnp, an increase in the value of annual goods and services, and are counted as "economic growth. " but conflating qualitative improvement and quantitative increase in the same value index leads to much confusion. sustainable development, i argue, necessarily means a radical shift from a growth economy and all it entails to a steady-state economy, certainly in the north, and eventually in the south as well. my first task has to be to elaborate the case for that theoretical and practical shift in worldview. what are the main theoretical and moral anomalies of the growth economy, and how are they resolved by the steady state? and what are the practical failures of the growth economy, viewed as forced first steps toward a steady state? but everyone, including economists, knows perfectly well that the economy takes in raw material from the environment and gives back waste. so why is this undisputed fact ignored in the circular flow paradigm? economists are interested in scarcity. what is not scarce is abstracted from. environmental sources and sinks were considered infinite relative to the demands of the economy, which was more or less the case during the formative years of economic theory. therefore it was not an unreasonable abstraction. but it is highly unreasonable to continue omitting the concept of throughput after the scale of the economy has grown to the point where sources and sinks for the throughput are obviously scarce, even if this new absolute scarcity does not register in relative prices. the current practice of ad hoc introduction of "externalities" to take account of the effects of the growing scale of throughput that do not fit the circular flow model is akin to the use of "epicycles" to explain the departures of astronomical observations from the theoretical circular motion of heavenly bodies. no doubt the biggest growth failure is the continuing arms race, where growth has led to less security rather than more and has raised the stakes from loss of individual lives to loss of life itself in wholesale ecocide. excessive population growth, toxic wastes, acid rain, climate modification, devastation of rain forests, and the loss of ecosystem services resulting from these aggressions against the environment represent case studies in growth failure. seeing them as first steps toward a steady-state economy requires the conscious willing of a hopeful attitude. money fetishism is a particular case of what alfred north whitehead called "the fallacy of misplaced concreteness," which consists in reasoning at one level of abstraction but applying the conclusions of that reasoning to a different level of abstraction. it argues that, since abstract exchange value flows in a circle, so do the physical commodities constituting real gnp. or, since money in the bank can grow forever at compound interest, so can real wealth, and so can welfare. whatever is true for the abstract symbol of wealth is assumed to hold for concrete wealth itself. " 1 "permanently," however, is not the same as "in the meantime," during which we have, at the micro level, bypassed the absurdity of accumulating use values by accumulating exchange value and holding it as a lien against future use values. but unless future use value, or real wealth, has grown as fast as accumulations of exchange value have grown, then at the end of some time period there will be a devaluation of exchange value by inflation or some other form of debt repudiation. at the macro level limits will reassert themselves, even when ignored at the micro level, where the quest for exchange value accumulation has become the driving force. the act of measurement always involves some interaction and interference with the reality being measured. this generalized heisenberg principle is especially relevant in economics, where the measurement of a success index on which rewards are based, or taxes calculated, nearly always has perverse repercussions on the reality being measured. consider, for example, the case of management by quantified objectives applied to a tuberculosis hospital, as related to me by a physician. it is well known that tb patients cough less as they get better. so the number of coughs per day was taken as a quantitative measure of the patient's improvement. small microphones were attached to the patients' beds, and their coughs were duly recorded and tabulated. the staff quickly perceived that they were being evaluated in inverse proportion to the number of times their patients coughed. coughing steadily declined as doses of codeine were more frequently prescribed. relaxed patients cough less. unfortunately the patients got worse, precisely because they were not coughing up and spitting out the congestion. the cough index was abandoned. but one need not go as far away as the soviet union to find examples. the phenomenon is ubiquitous. in universities a professor is rewarded according to number of publications. consequently the length of articles is becoming shorter as we approach the minimum publishable unit of research. at the same time the frequency of coauthors has increased. more and more people are collaborating on shorter and shorter papers. what is being maximized is not discovery and dissemination of coherent knowledge but the number of publications on which one's name appears. the purpose of these examples of the treachery of quantified success indexes is to suggest that, like them, gnp is not only a passive mismeasure but also an actively distorting influence on the very reality that it aims only to reflect. gnp is an index of throughput, not welfare. throughput is positively correlated with welfare in a world of infinite sources and sinks, but in a finite world with fully employed carrying capacity, throughput is a cost. to design national policies to maximize gnp is just not smart. it is practically equivalent to maximizing depletion and pollution. wisdom involves a knowledge of techniques plus an understanding of purposes and their relative importance, along with an appreciation of the limits to which technique and purpose are subject. to distinguish a real limit from a temporary bottleneck, and a fundamental purpose from a velleity, requires wise judgment. growthmania cannot be checked without wise judgment. since events are forcing us to think in terms of an information economy, it is perhaps not too much to hope that we will follow that thrust all the way to a wisdom economy, one design feature of which, i submit, will be that of a dynamic steady state. economists have recognized the independence of the goals of efficient allocation and just distribution and are in general agreement that it is better to let prices serve efficiency, and to serve equity with income redistribution policies. proper scale is a third, independent policy goal and requires a third policy instrument. this latter point has not yet been accepted by economists, but its logic is parallel to the logic underlying the separation of allocation and distribution. in pricing factors of production and distributing profits the market does, of course, influence the distribution of income. providing incentive requires some ability to alter the distribution of income in the interests of efficiency. the point is that the market's criterion for distributing income is to provide an incentive for efficient allocation, not to attain justice. and in any case, historical conditions of property ownership are major determinants of income distribution and have little to do with either efficiency or justice. these two values can conflict, and the market does not automatically resolve this conflict. first we must create a limited number of rights to pollute. the aggregate or total amount of pollution corresponding to these rights is determined to be within the absorptive capacity of the airshed or watershed in question. that is to say, the scale impact is limited to a level judged to be ecologically sustainable an economic plimsoll line must be drawn as the very first step. far from ignoring scale, this policy requires that the issue of sustainable or optimal scale be settled at the beginning. it may be done on the basis of a carrying capacity estimate, a safe minimum standards estimate, or a cost-benefit study, but some limit to total pollution must be set. only in third place, after having made social decisions regarding an ecologically sustainable scale and an ethically just distribution, are we in a position to allow reallocation among individuals through markets in the interests of efficiency. a separation between allocation and scale requires that the total quantity of permits be fixed, but that the price at which the permits trade be free to vary. if the total quantity were determined by a willingness-to-pay study that also gave a shadow price as well as an aggregate quantity, then the neoclassical economist who wants to avoid separating allocation and scale must insist that trading take place at the calculated shadow price. otherwise there will be a separation between allocation and scale. in practice, the price is always free to vary, clearly indicating that the pragmatic, operational solution has been to separate allocation and scale. for some reason economists have analyzed the tradable pollution permits scheme almost entirely in relation to the command and control allocative schemes. they have indeed shown it to be superior to command and control in terms of allocative efficiency. but with all the emphasis on allocation the critical role of scale went unnoticed, and the role of distribution, while certainly noticed, was not sufficiently emphasized. tradable permits have been considered the individualistic ''free market" solution, without emphasizing that this market is free only after having been firmly and collectively fixed within scale and distributive limits. the usual way for economists to deal with the scale issue, when forced to think about it at all, is to try to subsume it under allocation, claiming that if we just get prices right there will be no scale problem. of course, when the scale of the economy was small, then the right price for no scarce environmental services was zero. economists reason that when these services become scarce it is simply necessary to find the right positive price and everything will be efficiently allocated. it is true that pricing newly scarce resources is necessary to solve the allocation problem. the mistake is to assume that it therefore solves the scale problem as well. a small scale with a lot of zero prices for environmental services is quite a different state of the world from a large scale with a lot of positive prices for those previously free environmental services. in both cases "prices are right" and allocation is efficient. but it still makes sense to ask whether people are better off in the first or second case. i think that this critique of discounting is correct. but it should not be thought of as a way to subsume the scale problem entirely under the distribution problem. although justice with respect to the future is certainly an important motivation behind sustainability as a goal, and excessive scale can indeed mean a loss of sustainability, that does not exhaust the question of optimal scale. scale can become too large from the point of view of the present, even if it remains possible to pass on the too-large economy to the future forever. for example, we could take over the habitat of most other species, driving all nonessential species to extinction, and by careful self-discipline impose on ourselves a rigorous and costly management to compensate for the displaced self-managing natural systems. scale could be too large even if sustainable. for this reason scale cannot be totally subsumed under distribution, although it must be admitted that scale issues do overlap with one part of distribution, the intergenerational part, to a considerable degree. as long as the human economy was infinitesimal relative to the natural world, then sources and sinks could be considered infinite, and therefore not scarce. and if they are not scarce then they are safely abstracted from economics. there was no need to consider the larger system since it imposed no scarcities. this was a reasonable view at one time, but no longer. as kenneth boulding says, when something grows it gets bigger! the economy has gotten bigger, the ecosystem has not. how big has the economy become relative to the ecosystem? assuming a constant level of per capita resource consumption, the doubling time of the human scale would be equal to the doubling time of population, which is on the order of forty years. of course, economic growth currently aims to increase the average per capita resource consumption and consequently to reduce the doubling time of the scale of the human presence below that implicit in the demographic rate of growth. the greenhouse effect, ozone layer depletion, and acid rain all constitute evidence that we have already gone beyond a prudent plimsoll line for the scale of the macroeconomy. cowboy, spaceman, or bull in the china shop? if one starts from the vision of the economic process as an open subsystem of a closed finite total system, then the question of how big the subsystem should be relative to the total system is hard to avoid. how then have we managed to avoid it? in two ways: first, by viewing the economic subsystem as infinitesimally small relative to the total system, so that scale becomes irrelevant because it is negligible; second, by viewing the economy as coextensive with the total system. if the economy includes everything, then the issue of scale relative to a total system simply does not arise. these polar extremes correspond to boulding's colorful distinction between the "cowboy economy" and the "spaceman economy. " the cowboy of the infinite plains lives off of a linear throughput from source to sink, with no need to recycle anything. the spaceman in a small capsule lives off of tight material cycles and immediate feedbacks, all under total control and subservient to his needs. for the cowboy, scale is negligible; for the spaceman, scale is total. optimal scale of a single activity is not a strange concept to economists. indeed, microeconomics is about little else. an activity is identified, be it producing shoes or consuming ice cream, and a cost function and a benefit function for the activity in question are defined. good reasons are given for believing that marginal costs increase and marginal benefits decline as the scale of the activity grows. the message of microeconomics is to expand the scale of the activity in question up to the point where marginal costs equal marginal benefits, a condition which defines the optimal scale. all of microeconomics is an extended variation on this theme. it just doesn't matter how many people there are, or how much they each consume, as long as the proportions and relative prices are right. but if every micro activity has an optimal scale, then why does not the aggregate of all micro activities have an optimal scale? if i am told in reply that the reason is that the constraint on any one activity is the fixity of all the others and that when all economic activities increase proportionally the restraints cancel out, then i will invite the economist to increase the scale of the carbon cycle and the hydrologic cycle in proportion to the growth of industry and agriculture. i will admit that if the ecosystem can grow indefinitely then so can the aggregate economy. but until the surface of the earth begins to grow at a rate equal to the rate of interest, one should not take this answer too seriously. at the heart of the current crisis in economic theory and practice is the fact that we are consuming the earth's resource beyond its sustainable capacities of renewal, thus running down that capacity over time that is, we are consuming natural capital while calling it income. so it is natural that we turn our attention to another set of key topics in economic theory: consumption, value added, and welfare. what insights can we gain from traditional economics? what mistakes must we correct? in the passage from marshall quoted earlier, he refers to "new utilities" added by human beings, thus leaving open the possibility that matter might have some preexisting utility. but subsequent economists, in emphasizing new utilities or value added, have neglected to consider any value that nature has already provided. in the standard economic-textbook view, we consume only that value which we have added to natural resource flows. and then we add it again to the same indestructible building blocks, and consume it again, add it again, etc. , in the celebrated circular flow. if you believe that all value comes from labor and capital, and that nature contributes only a material substratum, nondestructible and superabundant, and hence valueless, then this is a reasonable view. are you poor? just add more value by your own labor and capital. you have your own labor, and you can accumulate your own capital, or borrow it at interest from abroad. there are no limits from nature. stop whining, get busy, and shut up about this imaginary pie. this view is common among neoclassical economists. in fact, it is a corollary to john locke's justification of private property to claim something as one's property requires that one has mixed one's labor with the materials of which it is made i. e. , added value to it. one way to make an argument is to assume the opposite and show that it is absurd. if manmade capital were a near perfect substitute for natural capital, then natural capital would be a near perfect substitute for man-made capital. but if so, there would have been no reason to accumulate man-made capital in the first place, since we were endowed by nature with a near perfect substitute. but historically we did accumulate man-made capital precisely because it is complementary to natural capital. if natural and man-made capital are obviously complements, how is it that economists have overwhelmingly treated them as substitutes? first, not all economists have leontief's inputoutput economics, with its assumption of fixed factor proportions, treats all factors as complements. second, the formal, mathematical definitions of complementarity and substitutability are such that in the two-factor case, the factors must be substitutes. 3 since most textbooks are written on two-dimensional paper, this case receives most attention. third, mathematical convenience continues to dominate reality in the general reliance on cobb-douglas and other constant elasticity of substitution production functions, in which there is nearly infinite substitutability of factors, in particular of capital for resources. thankfully, some economists have begun to constrain this substitution by the law of conservation of mass! fourth, exclusive attention to the margin results in marginal substitution obscuring overall relations of complementarity, for example, private expenditure on extra car maintenance may substitute for reduced public expenditure on roads. but this marginal element of substitution should not obscure the fact that private cars and roads are basically complementary forms of capital. but this is an artifact of changing product aggregation, not factor substitution along a given product isoquant. also, a new product may be designed that gives the same service with less resource use for example, light bulbs that give more lumens per watt. this is technical progress a qualitative improvement in the state of the art not the substitution of a quantity of capital for a quantity of resources in the production of a given quantity of a specific product. if we accept that natural and man-made capital are complements rather than substitutes, then what follows? if factors are complements, then the one in shortest supply will be the limiting factor. if factors are substitutes, then neither can be a limiting factor since the productivity of one does not depend much on availability of the other. the notion of a limiting factor is familiar to ecologists in leibig's law of the minimum. the idea that either natural or man-made capital could be a limiting factor simply cannot arise if the factors are thought to be substitutes. once we see that they are complements, then we must ask which one is the limiting factor that is, which is in shortest supply? third, if we subconsciously realize that production growth cannot continue, then the only way to cure poverty is to confront both sharing and population control. since these are considered impossible by political "realists," it is gratuitously concluded that whatever argument gave rise to this conclusion must be wrong. these three biases may have kept us from seeing the obvious namely, that man-made and natural capital are complements, and that natural capital has become the limiting factor. more man-made capital, far from substituting for natural capital, just puts greater complementary demands on it, running it down faster to temporarily support the value of man-made capital, making it all the more limiting in the future. one of the government's main problems is to maintain industrial peace between labor and capital. this has historically been accomplished by taking from the landlord and giving to labor and capital. nobody loves a landlord, but to the extent that government has become the landlord, its strategy of buying industrial peace by a policy of cheap resources is no longer at the expense of the erstwhile landlord class. instead it represents an abdication of the government's role as trustee for both the public interest and the interest of future generations. 6 taking this trustee role more seriously will require higher resource prices, and a higher risk of sharpening the labor-capital conflict. environmentalism does not usually engage these larger issues of political economy. the challenge to environmentalists in the twenty-first century will be to confront these fundamental questions. even if one is convinced by the previous argument that the focus of investment should shift from man-made to natural capital, a problem remains. since natural capital is by definition not man-made, it is not immediately obvious what is meant by ''investing" in it. yet the term "investment" applies because the concept involves the classical notion of "waiting" or refraining from current consumption as the way to invest in natural capital. before investigating further the meaning of investment in natural capital, we should examine the concept of natural capital itself. also, there is an important category that overlaps those of natural and man-made capital such things as plantation forests, fish ponds, herds of cattle bred for certain characteristics, etc. , are not really man-made, but are significantly modified from their natural state by human action. we will refer to these things as "cultivated natural capital. " this is a broad category, including agriculture, aquaculture, and plantation forestry. how does it affect our distinction between natural and man-made capital, and the claim that they are complements? one can analyze cultivated natural capital into its components of man-made and natural capital proper. for example, a plantation forest has a natural capital component of sunlight, rainfall, and soil nutrients plus a man-made capital component of management services such as planting, spacing, culling, and control of diseases. in general, there seems to be a strong complementary relation between the natural and man-made components of cultivated natural capital. by definition, investment in renewable natural capital must the only passive. but more active investment is possible in cultivated natural capital. how far can we go with this type of investment? can we cultivate an entire biosphere? does biosphere ii in arizona stand a chance of working? beyond its undoubted experimental value on a small scale, is a larger version of such active investment in cultivated natural capital at the ecosystem and biospheric scale likely to be a good bet in the future? can the whole ocean become a catfish pond? even if it could, would there not still be complementarity with the more basic natural capital of sunlight, chlorophyll, and decomposers? no one knows how far we can rely on cultivated natural capital. however, we are currently so far away from the requisite understanding of ecosystems that their large scale redesign should be ruled out as at best quantitatively insignificant, and at worst qualitatively dangerous. as paul ehrlich has reminded us, ecological economics is a discipline with a time limit. we do not have time to learn how to create a cultivated "biosphere ii. " we must save the remnants of biosphere i and allow them to regenerate by the passive investment of waiting. the term laissez faire thus acquires a new and deeper meaning for ecological economists. investments in distributive efficiency might reasonably be ruled out-of-bounds in an empty world that offered the easier alternative of growth. in a full world, growth is limited, and all improvement must come from efficiency improvement, so we can no longer neglect the possibility of efficiency increase through redistribution. economists have studied these aspects of service efficiency, especially allocative efficiency via the price mechanism, in great detail. further refinements from deeper study of ratio 0 will probably be less productive than the study of the other three ratios, except for the redistributive possibility. ratio 2 reflects the maintenance efficiency or durability of the man-made capital stock. while ratio 1 measures the service intensity per unit of time of the man-made stock, ratio 2 measures the number of units of time over which the stock yields that service. ratio 2 is the durability of the stock, or the "residence time" of a unit of resource throughput as a part of the man-made capital stock. a slower rate of throughput means reduced depletion and pollution. maintenance efficiency is increased by designing commodities to be durable, repairable, and recyclable, or by designing patterns of living that make certain commodities less necessary to begin with. ratio 3 is the growth efficiency of natural capital in yielding an increment available for off take as throughput. basically, it is determined by the intrinsic biological growth rate of the exploited population in its supporting ecosystem. for example, pine trees grow faster than mahogany, so in uses where either will do, pine is more efficient. nature generally presents a menu of different species growing at different rates. to the extent that we are able to design our technologies and consumption patterns to depend on the faster-growing species, that will be more efficient, ceteris paribus. the present lack of rational sequencing of ecosystem costs is due both to nonrecognition of the problem and to ignorance of ecosystem functioning. prudence in the face of large uncertainties about ecosystem costs should lead us to be very conservative about risking any further expansion. but even with complete certainty and a least-cost sequence of environmental costs, there is still an optimal scale beyond which it is antieconomic to grow. and of course this notion of optimal scale is purely anthropocentric, counting all other species only for their instrumental value to human welfare. if we attribute intrinsic value in some degree to other sentient creatures, then the optimal scale of the human niche would be smaller than if only human sentience counted. investment in natural capital would then have the additional benefit of increasing life-support services to nonhuman species whose enjoyment of life would no longer be counted as zero, though it certainly should not be counted as equal to human life enjoyment. reclassifying transactions in a way that converts a country's balance of trade from a surplus to a deficit would trigger a whole different set of international monetary fund recommendations and actions. this reform of balance-of-payments accounting should be the initial focus of the imf's new interest in environmentally sustainable development. the world bank should warmly encourage the managers and staff of its sister institution to get busy on this it does not come naturally to them. shifting the tax base to throughput induces greater throughput efficiency, and internalizes, in a blunt manner, the externalities from depletion and pollution. true, the exact external costs will not have been precisely calculated or exactly attributed to those activities that caused them, as with a pigouvian tax that aims to equate marginal social costs and benefits for each activity. but those calculations and attributions are so difficult and uncertain that insisting on them at the outset would be equivalent to a full-employment act for econometricians and prolonged unemployment and environmental degradation for everyone else. but the bulk of public revenue would be raised from taxes on throughput, at either the depletion or the pollution end. the income tax would be mainly for redistribution rather than revenue. the throughput taxes would be both for revenue and to encourage throughput minimization. some people worry that our tax base would disappear as throughput was minimized. but throughput cannot approach zero, and when it is minimized then taxes on it will still raise revenue, and tax rates can be raised to meet any revenue needs. it is value added that can be taxed out of existence, not throughput! furthermore, taxing something that has become inelastic in demand is allocatively efficient. indeed, sustainable development it self must be achieved in the north first. it is absurd to expect any sacrifice for sustainability in the south if similar measures have not first been taken in the north. the major weakness in the world bank's ability to foster environmentally sustainable development is that it only has leverage over the south, not the north. some way must be found to push the north also. the world bank must serve as an honest broker and represent the south in its legitimate expectations of the northand not just vice versa. the nordic countries and the netherlands have already begun to do this. in the past natural capital has been treated as superabundant and priced at zero, so it did not really matter whether it was seen as a complement or a substitute for man-made capital. now remaining natural capital appears to be both scarce and complementary, and therefore limiting. for example, cut timber is limited not by the number of sawmills, but by the remaining standing forests. pumped crude oil is limited not by man-made pumping capacity, but by the remaining stocks of petroleum in the ground, and the natural capital of the atmosphere's capacity to serve as a sink for co2 is likely to be even more limiting to the rate at which petroleum can be burned than is the source limit of remaining oil in the ground. but how do we invest in something which by definition we cannot make? if we could make it, it would be manmade capital! for renewable resources we have the possibility of fallowing investments, or more generally "waiting" in the marshallian sense allowing this year's growth increment to be added to next year's growing stock rather than consuming it. 6 for nonrenewables we do not have this option. we can only liquidate them. so the question is, how fast do we liquidate, and how much of the proceeds can we count as income if we invest the rest in the best available renewable substitute? and, of course, how much of the correctly counted income do we then consume and how much do we invest? one renewable substitute for natural capital is the mixture of natural and man-made capital represented by plantations, fish farms, and the like, which we may call "cultivated natural capital. " but even within this important hybrid category we have a complementary combination of natural and man-made capital components a plantation forest may use manmade capital to plant trees, control pests, and choose the proper rotation, for example but the complementary natural capital services of rainfall, sunlight, soil, and so on are still there, and eventually still become limiting. also, cultivated natural capital usually requires a reduction in biodiversity relative to natural capital proper, which must be counted as a cost. as mentioned in the introduction to part 1, it is necessary to know exactly what is supposed to be growing in "economic growth" before we can discuss whether it should be slowed down or speeded up. this focuses attention on the procedures and principles underlying our system of national accounts, more commonly known as gnp accounts. chapter 6 in this section makes a conservative case, written for the world bank, for changing our national accounts. chapter 7 makes some much more radical suggestions, drawing on the ideas of irving fisher. we did not offer the isew as the proper goal of economic policy it too has flaws. if gnp were a cigarette, then the isew would be that cigarette with a charcoal filter. if you are addicted to cigarettes it's better to smoke one with a charcoal filter; if you are addicted to numerical measures of welfare, it's better to use the isew. the fact is that we are so addicted, and addictions call for satisfaction. but we should not rest content with this addiction, and should begin to think about breaking it. after all, gnp, an invention of the 1930s, has been with us for far less time than has tobacco. that passions for growth have become attached to such arbitrary measures of welfare sometimes makes me think that we would be better off without any such measures at all. the mere existence of any numerical index of welfare is a standing invitation to the fallacy of misplaced concreteness to serving the inevitably distorted reflection of reality represented in the index instead of directly serving the reality itself. the explosion of the populations of human bodies, of artifacts of all kinds, and of the populations of plants and animals exploited for human use that has happened in the past fifty years might better be called an implosion, since it has occurred in a finite environment. the term ''implosion" suggests a compressing together rather than an expanding apart, a process of congestion, mutual interference, and self-canceling collision. defensive expenditures reflect this increasingly prevalent phenomenon of mutually interfering, self-canceling activities. geological and ecological information on depletion comes in physical units and must be priced or evaluated in some way before it can be subtracted from nnp. this will no doubt involve some arbitrary conventions. valuation might be based either on the principle of replacement cost or on willingness to pay, whichever is less, in order to be "conservative. " it is not clear that any greater arbitrariness would be involved than already exists in current estimates of depreciation of man-made capital, especially if one counts obsolescence or "moral" depreciation as well as physical. we smile and shake our heads at the mercantilist view, so full of contradictions and impossibilities which are easy to see from our historical vantage point. it is not so easy to see the anomalies in our own development theories, but i want to suggest that some might exist that we may be advocating something that is impossible, somewhat analogous to urging all countries to run a surplus balance of payments, and which will only lead to conflict and disappointment. the case of mercantilism shows that such an error is not without historical precedent. maximizing gnp probably makes more sense than maximizing gold stocks, but serious anomalies remain. i am not referring here to the problem of distribution, which has been widely recognized and on which economists have contributed much useful work. i refer instead to the fact that gnp, however distributed, may be more an index of cost than of benefit a point to be developed later. technological optimists counter the above argument by claiming that technology can increase resource productivity without limit, and that therefore all nations can become richer. even if true, such a claim does not counter the argument, which has been in terms of per capita resource use, not per capita product or welfare. even if technology could increase resource productivity without limit, so that the same physical resource flow would yield an ever greater value flow, we would still face the problem of keeping physical flows within ecological limits, and still could not generalize the current u. s. industrial economy to the whole world. we might generalize some new, as yet unknown system that made much more efficient use of resources, but that is more a concession to the impossibility hypothesis than a refutation of it. these considerations also suggest a concept of "overdevelopment" as correlative to "underdevelopment": an overdeveloped country might be defined as one whose level of per capita resource consumption is such that if generalized to all countries could not be sustained indefinitely; correspondingly an underdeveloped country would be one whose per capita resource consumption is less than what could be sustained indefinitely if all the world consumed at that level. instead of "indefinitely" one might substitute an arbitrary time period, say one hundred or five hundred years, to lend greater specificity. a serious shortcoming of these definitions is that since they are in per capita terms they do not take account of the absolute size of population and its distribution among countries. the reconstruction could not start again with east texas oil, but would have to start with offshore alaskan oil to be exploited without the further natural subsidy of mesabi range iron ore. third-world countries that export their prime geological capital in exchange for luxury consumer goods for their elite class could end up in exactly the same fix. are there any categories in our national accounts that would alert us to such a possibility? kuwait, for example, has a very high gnp per capita, but is this income or capital consumption? common sense suggests mainly the latter, but gnp accounts treat it simply as current income. why has the traditional national accounting approach of pigou and others become so inappropriate? at least a part of the answer lies in the fact that the world has changed since 1920, and that change has been qualitative as well as quantitative. it has changed in a way that fisher's view could have accommodated, but pigou's could not. the qualitative change i have in mind is that from a relatively empty world to a relatively full world, from a world of "unemployed carrying capacity" to a world of "fully employed carrying capacity. " when the world was empty, throughput could be considered a flow from an infinite source to an infinite sink, and not regarded as a cost because not scarce. the fact that a larger stock required a larger throughput meant that throughput was an index of capital stock, and consequently an indirect index of service rendered by the capital stock. and throughput had the irresistible advantage of being more measurable than service. of course gnp is a flow measure of production or consumption. as such it is largely the maintenance cost of the capital stock, a measure of the regrettably necessary activities of depletion, pollution, and labor that are required to maintain the capital stock against physical depreciation that inevitably occurs as the capital is used to satisfy wants. remember that "capital" is used in the broad sense of fisher, so that it includes umbrellas, shoes, pencils, and so on. wants are satisfied by the existing capital stock, not by the unavoidable but regrettable characteristic of the stock to become worn out or used up. gnp adds up parts of each of the three basic magnitudes. gnp counts the value of service of all assets rented during the accounting period, but not the value of services of owner-used assets, with the exception of owneroccupied houses for which a rental value is imputed and counted. nor does it count natural ecosystem services. the value of the throughput is reflected flow the value of production required for maintenance and replacement of people and of stocks and funds, including consumer goods. the last term, value of net change in accumulated stocks and funds, represents net investment. however, it does not include changes in natural stocks and funds, such as depletion of geological stocks, or disruptions of environmental functions, or depletions of ecological funds of other species upon which we depend. the depletion of minerals and the depreciation of ecological life-support "capital" accumulated over millennia is not subtracted in calculating change in stocks and funds, 3 nor is the loss of current service of environmental functions subtracted from the value of current services supplied by produced goods. how much sense does gnp make when translated into these more basic magnitudes? consider that service is benefit, throughput is a cost, and net accumulation is a change in stocks and funds. what sense does it make to add these incongruous magnitudes? is it not as if a merchant's bookkeeper added up receipts plus expenditures plus the change in inventory? of what analytic interest could such a conflation of numbers possibly be? should economic development be defined in terms of the increase of such a dubious sum, even when corrected for inflation, population size, and maldistribution? some economists would object to the above argument on the grounds that every entry into gnp is based on a transaction, and for that transaction to have occurred each party had to decide that the benefits to him or her of making the deal were greater than the costs to him or her. therefore any increase in gnp is already based on a micro-level comparison of costs and benefits and an additional macro-level comparison would be redundant at best, and at worst destructive of individual freedom. second, arguing from the part to the whole commits the fallacy of composition. micro rationality often leads to macro irrationality, as evidenced by the paradox of thrift, the tragedy of the commons, the prisoner's dilemma, the tyranny of small decisions, and the arms race. macro-level comparison of costs and benefits is necessary. furthermore, this point is accepted by standard economists when they argue in favor of stimulating aggregate growth beyond the individualistically market-determined level. public policy to stimulate aggregate growth must be based on an implicit comparison of costs and benefits at the macro level and the perception that the social benefits of growth are greater than the social cost. the issue is whether that perception is right or wrong, not the legitimacy of the macro cost-benefit comparison. the three-accounts approach would provide more relevant information and increase the accuracy of our perceptions of social costs and benefits. the problem with an optimizing approach lies not only in the requirement for accurate measures of cost and benefits of further stock accumulation, but also in the requirement that marginal cost and benefit functions be "well-behaved. " this means that the marginal benefit curve should be monotonically decreasing and the marginal cost curve monotonically increasing. the former would not be unreasonable to expect since rational people satisfy their most pressing wants first. thus each additional stock or fund would on average be devoted to a less pressing need. but the marginal cost curve reflects depletion of geological capital and loss of current environmental service functions. there is no reason to expect that loss of environmental function will be incurred in an ordered sequence from less to more important under the pressure of increasing throughput. the wisest course may be to try to set the level of accumulation at an ecologically sustainable amount. population times per capita resource consumption would be set equal to or, for safety's sake, less than carrying capacity. it seems to me that irving fisher's way of looking at things is eminently sensible, coherent, and logical. 4 it has the advantage of clearly separating costs and benefits and of measuring each more inclusively. benefits include not only the service of rented assets, but also the service of owner-used assets which are currently omitted. costs include depletion of natural capital, loss of current environmental service, and disutility of labor, all currently neglected in gnp, or, worse, implicitly treated as benefits. might this not be a more sensible approach than maximizing gnp, which is nearly equivalent to maximizing throughput and consequently maximizing the costs of depletion and pollution? although marxists and malthusians are traditional enemies, it seems to me that their respective understandings of the causes of poverty are logically consistent, however psychologically and ideologically at odds they may be. i wrote two papers on this theme. 1 chapter 9, below, is a sequel. chapter 8, on carrying capacity, grew out of my work at the world bank, in response to intensely practical but scrupulously avoided policy questions in paraguay and ecuador. these two chapters are in the nature of case studies, and therefore they are a bit more empirical than the rest of this book. at the same time, both setting immigration policy and enforcement of existing laws to stop illegal immigration are becoming hot political issues, especially in california and florida. recent welfare cutbacks have made poor citizens of this country increasingly unwilling to share these benefits with illegal aliens, the very same people who are competing for their jobs and thus lowering their wages. this has created both an understandable resentment toward lack of government enforcement of our immigration laws and an unfortunate hostility toward some immigrants. in the face of such a population increase any policy of protecting the amazon by limiting colonization is doomed to failure. how can any government tell millions of poor people that their survival is less important than the survival of trees and birds and undiscovered species? even if one believes that ethically it is better to save carrying capacity than individual lives, it would still be politically impossible to resist such colonization pressures. and the poor might well reason that if conservation is worth more than their lives then it is also worth more than the wealth of the rich. demands for redistribution would increase. the rich, knowing their own interests, will also urge opening of the amazon to temporarily postpone the pressure for redistribution. with 10 million extra people in the next twenty-five years there is no hope for saving the ecuadorian amazon from destruction, or of avoiding a great deal of misery. such a radical program could only be carried out by a nation that clearly perceived its alternatives as national survival versus national liquidation. that is clearly not the perception of the government of ecuador, or of the majority of its citizens. even the leading environmental organizations in ecuador, dedicated to preserving biodiversity in the amazon, have evaded taking any serious stand on the population issue. yet in twenty-five years ecuador will be another haiti if present trends are allowed to continue. not only does the ecuadoran government not realize this, neither do the multilateral development banks. a nation in the process of environmental liquidation will not be able to pay back loans at interest it is simply not creditworthy. ecuador needs some writing down of past debt, not new debt, unless the new debt is invested much more sustainably and productively than hitherto. but reduction of past debt cannot be expected as long as any part of petroleum rents are used for consumption rather than investment in renewable alternatives. perhaps one reason ecuador does not perceive its situation as drastic is that the development banks are eager to lend it more money. the obvious conclusion for ecuador to draw is that since it is creditworthy in the eyes of the development banks, things could not really be so bad. the development banks think things must not be so bad because ecuador is willing to borrow at interest and obviously considers itself creditworthy without drastic policies. each party takes comfort from the other's optimism. neither party has yet faced the facts. the likelihood of failure due to ecological reasons is very high. politically the colonization of the chaco will probably be seen as the way to minimize already serious land conflicts in the east, postpone dealing with population control, and maintain temporarily the mirage of progress and optimism, as well as offer a great national project to galvanize public support. against such political advantages the sobering calculation of carrying capacity may not be very persuasive. elements of a realistic policy for paraguay would not be very different form those listed for ecuador. in both cases, the simple estimate of carrying capacity has served to clarify the gravity of the situation. although the calculations are simple and crude, the inferences made from them are quite robust because the conscious tendency was to err on the high side in estimating carrying capacity. for policy purposes refined econometric models would add little to what is already obvious. what is lacking is not more exact information, but the political will to respect the ecological reasons for the historically low population density, whether in the ecuadoran amazon or the paraguayan chaco, and to limit human populations accordingly. the fact that human carrying capacity is not constant in no way removes the serious rate and magnitude contradictions over the next generation in the two cases here considered. nor does the "hong kong solution" of importing food for a dense population by exporting manufactured goods and financial services seem realistic for either the ecuadoran amazon or the paraguayan chaco. for one thing, the regions are remote. none of this is meant to imply that carrying capacity is only relevant to developing countries. if the united states of america had worried about carrying capacity, it would not have become so dangerously dependent on depleting petroleum reserves belonging to other nations. if the united states cannot even pass a reasonable gasoline tax to discipline unsustainable consumption, is it realistic to expect paraguay and ecuador to control population? both actions may appear politically unrealistic in the short run, but not taking such actions is biophysically unrealistic in the long run, even where "long run" means only twenty-five years. there are, of course, limitations in the use of either total family income or family income per head. as wood and carvalho remark, "larger households tend to have larger total incomes because of the greater number of earners, but smaller incomes per household member. " 10 when households are grouped by income per head differential fertility and income inequality are greater than when households are grouped according to total household income. neither category is "biased. " they are simply different concepts, each useful and reasonable as long as we remember the definitions and avoid mixing them in comparisons. the fact that these figures provoke disbelief as a first reaction among many nordestinos may be more an indication of customary blindness to the social reality they reflect, than a reason to doubt the numbers. that at least was the interpretation of some of the people at ibge in rio de janeiro who carried out the study, when informed of the disbelief prevalent among my colleagues in ceara. in any event, the subject deserves more study by believers and doubters alike. a broader question that also deserves more study was raised years ago by joao lyra madeira. 17 why has the whole subject of fertility been tainted with a virtual taboo in brazilian demography and economics? nowadays "taboo" is perhaps too strong a word yet there remains a certain "disinclination" to study fertility in its socioeconomic context. when a subject is taboo it usually reveals an injustice too blatant to defend openly, but too important to the interests of the status quo to challenge openly. i am reminded of the segregated southern united states of my childhood. it was obvious to an unexceptional child that, by and large, the blacks did the dirty work and were poor, while the whites did the more interesting work and were better paid. and segregation laws were intended to keep it that way. it was acceptable to take explicit notice of this fact as long as one did not dwell on it, or pursue it too deeply. it is inconvenient to the oligarchy because it exposes another dimension of class exploitation. one might think, therefore, that marxists would be eager to expose the facts. however, they are unwilling to admit any cause for poverty other than monopoly ownership of the means of production. neo-malthusian policies are especially distasteful to marxists because they hold out the possibility of improvement by individual action, thereby weakening class solidarity and taking some wind out of the sails of their single cure for all ills, the class revolution. consequently, the subject is neglected. because of this neglect the exceptionally large fertility differentials in northeast brazil are still awaiting adequate "explanation. " as i have indicated, i believe the basic explanation lies in the class nature of the society. as i argued in my studies of 1970 and 1971, the literal role of a proletariat is to proliferate. 18 the literal meaning of the word "proletariat" in ancient rome was those with many children, the poorest class of society whose members were exempt from taxes and whose service to the republic was mainly in the procreation of children. implicit in this literal meaning and explicitly developed in malthusian and neo-malthusian thought is the association of poverty with rapid proliferation. by marx's time the word had largely lost its latin meaning, and marx severed any remaining etymological connection with proliferation by redefining the word to mean nonowners of the means of production who must sell their labor to the capitalists in order to survive. a theory of poverty is also implicit in marx's definition, specifically that poverty is a consequence of the monopoly ownership of the means of production by a few and the consequent no ownership of the means of production by many. ideologically, in the sense of providing a single cause and a single cure for poverty, the two traditions conflict. but logically the marxian and malthusian theories do not conflict. it is quite possible for one class to have a monopoly of both the means of production and the means of limiting reproduction. in fact, marx himself tells us that mere possession of land and capital is not sufficient to make a man a landlord or a capitalist if there be lacking the requisite social correlative, the proletarian with no alternative but to sell his labor to the capitalist. 19 rapid reproduction of "correlatives" supports and reinforces the unequal distribution of productive wealth that is the dominant feature of social life in northeast brazil. by 1977 the corresponding class difference in life expectancy in the northeast had fallen to about 15 years. the biggest change, almost 11 years, occurred between the categories "half to one minimum wage" and "one to two minimum wages," whereas the big change in fertility over the same period was between the previous two categories of "below half minimum wage" and "half to one minimum wage. '' the fall in the birthrate thus occurred before that of the death rate as we move up the scale of family income per head a fact which seems to weaken the hypothesis that birth rates fall as a lagged response to falling death rates. in sum, class differences in mortality are not as extreme as the fertility differences, nor is the dividing line so dramatic, nor at the same income level. nevertheless, mortality differences add significantly to the total picture of the real dimensions of a class society. the demographic dimensions of class in northeast brazil may be summarized as follows. further support for the second view can be found in various official public pronouncements. in 1982, a study group of the escola superior de guerra published a short book entitled the brazilian demographic problem,23 which reflects the official view, illustrated by the following quotations. a country of continental dimensions such as brazil, with fabulous natural resources, abundant wealth, and without prejudice in matters of race, colour or religion needs a population sufficient to occupy and defend its territory from international greed. free trade and comparative advantage were the orthodox doctrines that once had the strongest hold on my mind and were the most difficult for me to let go of. therefore it does not surprise me that many otherwise sympathetic readers part company with me on the issue of free trade. however, i believe that the reasons which convinced me to reconsider these doctrines will also eventually convince others to do so. we have been far too uncritical in our celebration of everything global and cosmopolitan, and in our corresponding denigration of everything national and local. i was awakened from dogmatic slumber on the trade issue by john cobb, in 198788, while we were working together on our book for the common good. after twenty years of teaching the theory of comparative advantage to college sophomores, the trade issue was rather settled in my mind. but john forced me to rethink the whole question, which i did, going back to ricardo. i was chagrined to discover the degree to which i, and the textbooks i had been using, had unthinkingly ignored ricardo's very restrictive assumption that capital is immobile between nations. without that assumption the principle of comparative advantage collapses. in chapter ii of for the common good we set our case against free trade and in defense of community, in this instance national community. i confess that i half expected that we had made some terrible mistake and that other economists would delight in destroying our arguments. but in the elapsed seven years that has not happened. the reduced range of choice of occupations for a given population is seldom mentioned as a welfare cost, but it is important. most people's enjoyment of life depends at least as much on how they earn their living as on how they spend their earnings. for example, a country like uruguay, with a clear comparative advantage in cattle and sheep ranching, would afford a citizen the choice of being either a cowboy or a shepherd, if it adhered strictly to the rule of specialization and trade; however, to sustain a viable national community uruguayans have felt that they need their own legal, financial, medical, insurance, and educational services, as well as basic agriculture and industry. even if it entails some loss of efficiency, such diversity is necessary for community and nationhood. and from an individualistic perspective, the increased range of choice of occupation has to be counted as a welfare gain. nations weakened by economic erasure of their borders are in a poor position to carry out domestic policies, including those policies they may have agreed to undertake in support of international environmental treaties that they have signed. such treaties are a step toward true global community, but they are rendered meaningless if nations effectively give up their ability to comply by allowing their borders to be erased in the name of free trade. transnational corporations have escaped the national obligations of community by becoming international, and since there is as yet no international community, they have escaped from community obligations altogether. globalism does not serve world community it is just individualism writ large. we can either leave transnational capital free of community constraint, or create an international government capable of controlling it, or renationalize capital and put it back under control of the national community. i favor the last alternative. i know it is hard to imagine right now, but so are the others. it may be easier to imagine after an international market crash. with national borders permeable to the free flow of both goods and capital, and increasingly of labor as well, there will be one global labor market, one capital market, one market for all goods and services, and consequently one world price for each commodity. a single country can no longer follow a separate wage policy, or a different interest rate policy, or its own fullcost pricing policy, or even its own population control policy unless it can convince the rest of the world to follow the same policy. instead of hundreds of separate national ''laboratories" independently trying out different policies, some of which may work, we will have just one big global experiment, which, given the reality of standards-lowering competition, is almost designed to fail. consider two examples of how free trade makes it hard to solve national problems. first, the problem of getting u. s. citizens off of welfare and into jobs at which they can earn a living is made unsolvable if we insist on immediately throwing them into competition with the poor masses of the world. expecting disadvantaged fellow citizens to go right off welfare into competition with all the cheap and able labor of an overpopulated world is a denial of community with them. second, in a parallel way, the problem of conversion of our military production capacity to peacetime uses is made excessively difficult if the new civilian enterprise must immediately face stiff foreign competition. our military sector is as inefficient as any centrally planned socialist economy. it needs competition but competition must be introduced slowly. it is better for our community to employ workers and companies who, although not now competitive by world standards, are nevertheless making some positive contribution to our nation, than to demand " global efficiency" at the expense of unemployment and associated social costs crime, drug addiction, and irresponsible procreation. since the initial introduction of trade eases environmental constraints relative to total economic self-sufficiency, or autarky, it creates the illusion that further trade will continue to ease those constraints. but the benefits of moving from no trade to some trade cannot be generalized to the proposition that more trade is better than less trade. and of course all countries cannot be net importers of natural capital. free trade also introduces greater geographic separation between the production benefits and the environmental costs of throughput growth, making it more difficult to compare them and consequently easier to overshoot the optimal scale defined by their equality at the margin. furthermore, as a result of the increased integration caused by trade, countries will face tightening environmental constraints more globally and simultaneously, and less nationally and sequentially, than they would with less trade and integration. therefore there will be less opportunity to experiment on a smaller scale and to learn from other countries' prior experience with controlling throughput. in sum, by making supplies of resources and absorption capacities anywhere simultaneously available to demands everywhere, free trade will tend to increase throughput growth, and with it the rate of environmental degradation. it will greatly reduce the control that people in local communities have over their local environments and their livelihoods. the tendency of free trade to increase throughput growth is counted as a virtue in neoclassical growth economics. in sustainable or steady-state economics, however, any tendency for trade to push growth beyond the optimal scale is recognized as antieconomic. yet free traders emphasize the importance of strengthening intellectual property rights and making knowledge less and less "the common property of mankind. " their argument is that unless new knowledge is kept expensive there will not be sufficient incentive to produce more of it. but even granting considerable force to that point, i am still inclined to favor the hypothesis that the benefit of rapid sharing of the knowledge we now have is greater than the cost of any consequent risk of slowing the creation of new knowledge. following schumpeter, one could argue that new knowledge has a natural but temporary monopoly by virtue of its novelty, and it is the loss of that novelty, as a result of sharing knowledge, that gives the incentive to discover ever newer knowledge. the use value of new knowledge gets imputed to the factors of production that put it into effect, as the exchange value of the knowledge is competed down to zero. measures of welfare are difficult and subject to many arbitrary judgments, so sweeping conclusions should be resisted. however, it seems fair to say that for the united states since 1947 the empirical evidence that gnp growth has increased welfare is very weak. consequently, any impact on welfare via free trade's contribution to gnp growth would also be very weak. in other words, the great benefit, for which we are urged to sacrifice national community and industrial peace, turns out on closer inspection not to exist. ricardo showed how free trade could be mutually beneficial for countries even where there were dramatic one-sided differences in how expensive it would be to produce the same goods in each country. consider his example of england and portugal in the eighteenth century. it was cheaper to produce both wine and cloth in portugal, in absolute terms, than in england. but it was also true that england's cloth industry was relative to its wine industry significantly more efficient. england's disadvantage relative to portugal in cloth production was less than its disadvantage relative to portugal in wine production. england had a comparative advantage in cloth, portugal a comparative advantage in wine. ricardo showed that each country would be better off specializing in the product in which it had a comparative advantage and trading for the other, regardless of absolute advantage. free trade between the countries, and competition within each country, would lead to this mutually beneficial result. regardless of what ricardo would say if he were alive, some modern neoclassical economists might still want to argue for free trade on the basis of absolute rather than comparative advantage. they could still show that total world product would increase as a result of specialization and trade according to absolute advantage, but not that each nation would necessarily be better off. that is the rub. since the classical economists were nationalists, they were simply not interested in global integration for its own sake, or in trade that did not benefit their own nations. i think their position was wise. to the extent that global integration takes place, the very idea of "each nation" loses its economic meaning. but the neoclassicals do not mind that because they are individualists, not nationalists. sorry, old union joe six-pack, but we live in a global economy can buy labor abroad at onetenth the wage your union wants, and with lower environmental and social taxes, and still sell my product in this market or any other. your severance check is in the mail. good luck. . . . what do you mean, "bonds of national community"? i just told you that we live in a global economy, and have abandoned all that nationalistic stuff that caused two world wars. factor mobility is necessary for maximum efficiency, and without maximum efficiency we will lose out in global competition. . . . yes, joe, of course there will be a tendency to equalize wages worldwide, but profits will also equalize. . . . well, yes, of course wages will be equalized downward and profits equalized upward. what else would you expect in a global economy that reflects world supply and demand? don't you want the chinese and mexican workers to be as rich as you are? you're not a racist, are you, joe? at this stage in the dialogue there's not much community left. we have here the abrogation of a basic social agreement between labor and capital over how to divide up the value that they jointly add to raw materials. that agreement has been reached not through economic theory, but through generations of national debate, elections, strikes, lockouts, court decisions, and violent conflicts that agreement, on which national community and industrial peace depend, is being repudiated in the interests of global integration. that is a very poor trade, even if one calls it "free" trade. the logic of free trade, once it is erroneously extended to free capital mobility, is by consistency also extended to free labor mobility, that is, free immigration. if we are truly in a global economy, why not? if neither capital nor the governments that serve it have any greater obligation to citizens than to foreigners, then certainly migration should be free. free movement of goods, of capital, and of labor is the logical consequence of global economic integration. it is certainly not what ricardo or smith had in mind when speaking of free trade, but is the implicit or explicit program of today's free-trading globalists. it does not serve national community, it destroys it. and it does not create international community either. a former texas commissioner of agriculture, jim hightower, made the following suggestion: "let's keep our factories and jobs here and move our corporate headquarters to mexico, korea, or wherever else we can get some reasonably priced chief executives. " or maybe we could allow free immigration of cheap chief executives along with cheap labor. not likely. more likely is that we will witness a further writing off of the laboring class in this country, an increasing disdain toward uneducated and rural people by the corporate and university elite, and an increasing devotion by the former to the one thing about themselves that at least vaguely concerns the latter their growing arsenal of guns. free trade, specialization, and global integration mean that nations are no longer free not to trade. yet freedom not to trade is surely necessary if trade is to remain mutually beneficial. national production for the national market should be the dog, and international trade its tail. but the globalist free traders want to tie the dogs' tails together so tightly that the international the national dogs. the globalists envision this as a harmoniously knot will wag choreographed canine ballet. more likely it will result in a multilateral dog fight, along with serious class conflicts within nations. there may be other criteria of adjustment, but certainly these three seem to cover most instances of so-called "adjustment lending," which invariably are for the purpose of financing a policy change aimed at rationalizing prices, dealing with macroeconomic problems of debt and deficit, and liberalizing international trade. why a country should find it either necessary or desirable to borrow money at interest in order to adopt more reasonable national policies is not always obvious. some tend to think of adjustment lending as bribery, although for a good cause. in any case, the faith is that the policy change, like any other investment, will add more to national welfare than the payment of interest on the loan will subtract from it. of course, if all trading nations agreed to common rules for defining, evaluating, and internalizing external costs, then this objection would disappear and the standard arguments for free trade could again be made in the new context. but how likely is such agreement? even the small expert technical fraternity of national income accountants cannot agree on how to measure environmental costs in the system of national accounts, let alone on rules for internalizing these costs into prices at the firm level. politicians are not likely to do better. some economists will argue against uniform cost internalization on the grounds that different countries have different tastes for environmental services and amenities, and that these differences should be reflected in prices as legitimate reasons for profitable trade. certainly agreement on uniform principles, and the proper extent of departure from uniformity in their application, will not be easy. once capital is mobile, then the entire doctrine of comparative advantage and all its comforting demonstrations become irrelevant. the consequence of capital mobility would be similar to that of international labor mobility a strong tendency to equalize wages throughout the world. given the existing overpopulation and high demographic growth of the "third world," it is clear that the equalization will be downward, as it has indeed been during the last decade in the united states. of course, returns to capital will also be equalized by free trade and capital mobility, but the level at which equalization will occur will be higher than at present. united states capital will benefit from cheap labor abroad followed by cheap labor at home, at least until checked by a crisis of insufficient demand due to a lack of worker purchasing power resulting from low wages. but that can be forestalled by efficient reallocation to serve the new pattern of effective demand resulting from the greater concentration of income. the goal of sustainable development is, by changes in allocation, distribution, and scale, to move the world toward a state in which "development," whatever it concretely comes to mean, will be for all people in all generations. this is certainly not achievable by a more finely tuned adjustment to the standard growth model which is largely responsible for having created the present impasse in the first place. libertarian economists look at homo economicus as a self-contained individual who is infinitely mobile and equally at home anywhere. but real people live in communities, and in communities of communities. their very individual identities are constituted by their relations in community. to regard community as a disposable aggregate of individuals in temporary proximity only for as long as it serves the interests of mobile capital is bad enough when capital stays within the nation. but when capital moves internationally it becomes much worse. free trade does not remove carrying capacity constraints it just guarantees that nations will hit that constraint more or less simultaneously rather than sequentially. it converts differing local constraints into an aggregated global constraint. it converts a set of problems, some of which are manageable, into one big, unmanageable problem. evidence that this is not understood is provided by the countless occasions when someone who really should know better points to the netherlands or hong kong as both an example to be emulated and as evidence that all countries could become as densely populated as these two. how it would be possible for all countries to be net exporters of goods and net importers of carrying capacity is not explained. a subsystem cannot grow beyond the scale of the total system of which it is a part. if the total system provides services that the subsystem cannot provide for itself, then the subsystem must avoid impinging on the parent system to an extent and in ways that would impair its ability to provide those services. the scale of the economy must remain below the capacity of the ecosystem sustainably to supply services such as photosynthesis, pollination, purification of air and water, maintenance of climate, filtering of excessive ultraviolet radiation, recycling of wastes, etc. adjustment in the service of growth has pushed us beyond a sustainable scale. to maintain the present scale of population and per capita consumption we are consuming natural capital and counting it as income. the effort to overcome poverty by further growth in scale of throughput is self-defeating once we have reached the point where growth in scale increases environmental costs faster than it increases production benefits. beyond this point, which we have, in all likelihood, already passed, further growth makes us poorer, not richer. the alternative is to stop growth in scale, and seek to overcome poverty by redistribution and qualitative improvement in efficiency of resource use, rather than further quantitative increase in the resource throughput. a policy of limiting throughput will automatically redirect energies toward increasing the efficiency with which it is used. if technology can easily and greatly increase efficiency, then the transition could be relatively painless. if not, it will be more difficult. in either case it remains necessary. the basic policy is the same whether one is a technological optimist or pessimist. in an effort to avoid facing these realities, those wedded to the adjustment paradigm have come up with one more adjustment which they contradictorily call sustainable growth. much confusion is generated by using the term "sustainable growth" as a synonym for sustainable development. respect for the dictionary would lead us to reserve the word "growth" for quantitative increase in physical size by assimilation or accretion of materials. ''development" refers to qualitative change, realization of potentialities, transition to a fuller or better state. the two processes are distinct sometimes linked, sometimes not. for example, a child grows and develops simultaneously; a snowball or a cancer grows without developing; the planet earth develops without growing. economies frequently grow and develop at the same time but can do either separately. but since the economy is a subsystem of a finite and non-growing ecosystem, then as growth leads it to incorporate an ever larger fraction of the total system into itself, its behavior must more and more approximate the behavior of the total system, which is development without growth. it is precisely the recognition that growth in scale ultimately becomes impossible and already costs more than it is worth that gives rise to the urgency of the concept of sustainable development. sustainable development is development without growth in the scale of the economy beyond some point that is within biospheric carrying capacity. many believe that the present scale is beyond long-term carrying capacity and that sustainable growth in its initial phase will require a period of negative growth. even if one is a technological optimist and believes that development in the productivity of the resource throughput can increase faster than the volume of the throughput needs to diminish, this is still very radical. the term "sustainable growth" aims to deny this radical transformation, and to suggest that growth is still the number one goal, that growth just needs to be a bit more environmentally friendly. sustainable growth is just one more adjustment to the standard view. sustainable development is an alternative to the standard growth ideology and is incompatible with it. sustainable development, development without growth, does not imply the end of economics if anything, economics becomes even more important. but it is a subtle and complex economics of maintenance, qualitative improvement, sharing, frugality, and adaptation to natural limits. it is an economics of better, not bigger. stocks of assets, to the extent that we can maintain them against the ravages of entropy, are aids and accessories in improving our ability to tap the energy revenue, but the revenue itself cannot be significantly increased, and it cannot be saved except to a limited degree. indeed, the very maintenance of our accumulated stock of physical wealth against the destructive force of entropy requires the renewing power of the low-entropy "revenue" flow. true, nature has stored energy in coal, but it took geologic epochs of time, and we are only able to unstore it. furthermore, the "flamboyant period" of using up the capital stock of coal was perceived by soddy as a "very passing phase," after which the constraints imposed by living on energy revenue would be more clearly seen and unmistakably felt. soddy seems to be saying that what is obviously impossible for the community for everyone to live on interest should also be forbidden to individuals, as a principle of fairness. if it is not forbidden, or at least limited in some way, then at some point the growing liens of debt holders on the limited revenue will become greater than the future producers of that revenue will be willing or able to support, and conflict will result. the conflict takes the form of debt repudiation. debt grows at compound interest and as a purely mathematical quantity encounters no limits to slow it down. wealth grows for a while at compound interest, but, having a physical dimension, its growth sooner or later encounters limits. debt can endure forever; wealth cannot, because its physical dimension is subject to the destructive force of entropy. since wealth cannot continually grow as fast as debt, the one-to-one relation between the two will at some point be broken there must be some repudiation or cancellation of debt. only the subtitle of the latter, the bearing of physical science upon state stewardship, gives any hint of the nature of his most important and original contribution to economics. but the fact remains that soddy anticipated the basic insights of georgescu-roegen and boulding regarding the relation of economics and thermodynamics, and deserves recognition as a pioneer in a line of thinking which i believe will one day be dominant. the first question is sensible but irrelevant because soddy never suggested that one could take advantage of compound interest without reinvesting at least part of the interest income. the second part of the question, however, reveals that the questioner had no conception of the difference between physical and purely mathematical quantities, and must have made soddy despair of ever communicating with economists. perhaps by "approximately" professor silverman meant "for a limited time period. " but then we must ask what happens at the end of that limited time period, and how long it is. georgescu-roegen's contributions to economics are numerous and varied, but can usefully be grouped into two categories made popular by the philosopher thomas kuhn: normal science and revolutionary science. his normal science contributions include fundamental work in utility and consumer choice, measurability, expectations, production theory, inputoutput analysis, and economic development. he was truly a pioneer in mathematical economics, and therefore it may be misleading to class that part of his contribution as "normal science. " it was rather revolutionary while he was doing it, and appears now as normal science only because the revolution was successful and became the new norm. what i am here calling his contribution to revolutionary science, namely his work in the entropy law and the economic process, has not yet been victorious, and is revolutionary in the sense that it still faces opposition from the reigning paradigm, the very paradigm which georgescu himself helped to solidify. others of his students might in my place choose to write mainly of his earlier contributions to what is now standard economics. that would certainly be appropriate. but i have chosen to write about his revolutionary contributions because i think they are far more important, and certainly more relevant to ecological economics. i confess that it is a matter of some consternation and distress to me that twenty-two years after the publication of the entropy law and the economic process, 1 and twenty-eight years after the publication of the introductory essay to analytical economics,2 one can still find no trace of their influence in the standard principles textbooks. recognition of the importance of these new ideas has not been lacking in other fields. writers in science, engineering, and philosophy journals have wondered aloud why economists have not paid more attention to georgescu's later work. the lack of influence might be taken as evidence that his arguments have simply not withstood the criticism of other economists. but that is manifestly not the case. 4 also, georgescu was a distinguished fellow of the american economic association, and in 1965 paul samuelson in his preface to analytical economics referred to him as a "scholar's scholar, an economist's economist. " and samuelson was not referring only to georgescu's normal science work, reprinted in analytical economics, but also to the long introductory essay that was the first expression of the revolutionary position later given definitive form in the entropy law and the economic process. samuelson went on to say, "i defy any informed economist to remain complacent after meditating over this essay. " and yet remain complacent is just what most economists did! in fact, twenty-eight years later, even in samuelson's influential textbook, we have yet to find a trace of the ideas contained in that essay. of course, a beginning text does not discuss advanced topics, and one certainly does not expect to find there any mention of georgescu's highly technical contributions to standard economics. but his revolutionary insights regarding economics and entropy are really elementary by virtue of being so fundamental. nor do they require anything beyond a nontechnical exposition of the entropy law. these basic insights could certainly be included in an elementary text. but the rub is that their inclusion has so many implications that are so upsetting to the standard viewpoint that extensive revisions throughout the text could not be avoided. the chapter on national income accounting, with its conventions on how to measure the circular flow, would be expanded to include some measured index of the entropic flow, a "gross national throughput. " also, this chapter could consider the curious asymmetry in present national accounts whereby we write off the value of man-made assets against current production as they depreciate, but make no such deduction for the depreciation of natural assets. a country could exhaust its mines, cut down its forests, erode its topsoil, and exploit its wildlife and fisheries to extinction, and measured income would rise steadily as these assets disappeared. putting the entropic flow at the center of analysis should force us to pay attention to the natural capital stocks that yield this vital flow. we would emphasize the hicksian definition of income as the maximum amount an individual or a community could consume over some time period and still be as well off at the end of the period as at the beginning. being as well off means having maintained capital intact only now that must include natural capital as well as man-made. our chapter on population would have a much revised discussion of the concept of optimum population. the issue would not be how many people, but how many people for how long? or rather, how many people, for how long, living at what level of per capita resource use? the relevant question would be how to maximize the cumulative person-years ever to be lived over time at a standard of per capita resource use that is sufficient for a good life. i close with the wish that my work should receive rigorous but impartial examination. i am in a strong position to insist on this request because i was forced to fight so many mistaken ideas generally considered correct, ideas that have thus become so much more dear to the heart of many, yes, very many people, because their position in life is partly or wholly dependent upon accepting these ideas as true. giving up these ideas would put them in the situation in which i now find myself, namely, at a mature age to have to look for a new position. sustainable development will require a change of heart, a renewal of the mind, and a healthy dose of repentance. these are all religious terms, and that is no coincidence, because a change in the fundamental principles we live by is a change so deep that it is essentially religious whether we call it that or not. and among our proudly secular intelligentsia there is strong resistance to calling it that indeed the best way to marginalize an issue in academia is to classify it as religious. 1 we no longer call for repentance, or even for progress. the strongest prophetic utterance one hears today is a call for change. we no longer have the courage to use the value-dependent term "progress," since values are considered mere "epiphenomena" by the intelligentsia. the more neutral term "change" is preferred, because it implies no direction or intentionality. it is just something objective that happens, and we, of course, are assumed to have some vestigial sense of duty to adjust to it, or at least not oppose it. the first chapter in this section focuses on the principle of limited inequality, and argues that this principle has a strong biblical basis. it may seem quaint to appeal to biblical authority in support of an ethical principle, rather than to john rawls, robert nozick, amartya sen, or the social contract, as is the current academic vogue. but as a matter of historical fact most of the moral principles that have force in the united states came straight from the bible, and were spread throughout this land by churches and universities. and the universities were themselves overwhelmingly founded by churches, usually protestant ones, even though little trace of that origin remains in most universities today. 2 those who would prefer to ground ethical principles in culture and history will find in our culture and history mainly various understandings of the bible as bases for ethical principles. so i see no need to apologize to them for basing a moral principle directly on the bible, rather than indirectly through our eroding cultural heritage. no one is arguing for an invidious, forced equality. a factor of ten in inequality would be justified by real differences in effort and diligence, and would provide sufficient incentive to call forth these qualities. to be conservative make it a factor of twenty. but bonds of community break at or before a factor of one hundred. class warfare is already beginning. the devotion of many rural and working-class people to their guns, and the resulting clout of the national rifle association, stems from the usually unarticulated but very real feeling that "although this government has written me off as an ignorant, working-class redneck, there is a limit to how far they can push me if i have my guns. if they take my guns, there is no limit. " i recognize that there is considerable political and religious fanaticism in these militia movements, but they are also an expression of class conflict bred from growing inequality. but we need some principled way of getting from religious belief to economic principle, and any such principle must be general and fundamental enough to be translated from the agrarian economies of biblical palestine and the roman empire to the modern industrial economies of today. in this chapter, i attempt a translation of one specific and radical economic principle from the specific context of the old and new testaments. in the last chapter, i conclude the book by looking a bit more broadly at religious context: i suggest the ways in which the principal features of the economics of sustainable development come naturally out of and are crucially sustained by a religious view of the world. for example, it makes no sense for farmers today not to harvest the corners of their fields in order to leave something for wayfarers, sojourners, widows, and orphans. the practice is outdated, but the principle is timeless: make some provision for the poor. the old way is obsolete, so we look for a more fitting way. even categories of the needy change in our times widows and orphans are frequently rather well-off heirs. perhaps the colorless census term "unmarried heads of household" comes closer to naming our disadvantaged brothers and sisters usually sisters. i propose to deal with just one biblical economic principle, the one which seems to me most basic, most easily discerned, and most in need of a better institutionalization in today's world. it also partially overlaps with the institutions needed for a sustainable economy. in what follows i will first state the principle and present evidence that it in fact was the guiding economic norm of the groups whose values are incorporated in the hebrew scriptures and that its validity is reaffirmed in the new testament. secondly, i will suggest a new institution for better reincorporating that principle into the modern economy. thirdly, i will suggest some further implications of the principle and its relevance to a steady-state economy. the "eleventh commandment" presupposes the legitimacy of private property and of some inequality in its distribution. it simply insists that the degree of inequality be limited. before considering the range of such limits, let us first say a word about private property itself, since its legitimacy is often contested. christianity and judaism both regard human persons as free and responsible agents, accountable for their own actions. without private property the arena of individual freedom and responsibility would be exceedingly small. also, the eighth commandment, " thou shalt not steal," is often cited as an oblique support for private property. absolute equality was neither a fact nor a goal, but the community could not tolerate unlimited inequality. there were definite limits to the degree of inequality. first, the distribution of land among families was equal, or at least just in some more inclusive sense. second, if property is necessary for the exercise of freedom and responsibility, then it is clear that everyone should have some, or at least the right to glean the fields and harvest the corners, an attenuated form of property. the obverse of this position is the classical justification for private property as a bulwark protecting the individual against exploitation by others. a property owner has an independent livelihood and need not accept whatever conditions of employment are offered. if the legitimacy of property is based on either of these reasons, it is clear that its ownership should be widespread, indeed universal. the levitical answer to how much inequality is permissible was basically this: no more than could accumulate over fifty years, starting with a just initial distribution, and following basic laws of fair dealing, zero interest rate, sabbatical fallow, minimal rights of the poor, religious tithes, and the like. the jubilee the sabbath of sabbaths, the fiftieth year was a time for returning to the original distribution. the mere existence and expectation of the jubilee year tended to slow down the accumulation of the very inequalities that it would eventually correct. as the jubilee year approached, the incentive to accumulate was reduced, since current gains would soon have to be surrendered. immediately after the jubilee, when the gains could be enjoyed for forty-nine years, the incentive to accumulate was greatest, just when the actual equality of distribution was also greatest. we must begin by admitting that we have no god-given definition of what the limits to inequality should be. do we therefore face a hopeless task? i don't think so. a democracy has no clear-cut objective rule for determining the minimum voting age; we feel that it should be early adulthood, but whether that should be defined as eighteen or twenty-two could be argued endlessly. the point is that the exact limit is largely arbitrary. the important thing is that there be some defined and accepted minimum age whether eighteen or twenty-two is not really significant. likewise, the exact limits to inequality are much less important than the principle that limits be placed somewhere corresponding to a reasonable, functional, and just degree of inequality. but what is that reasonable, functional range? the minimum income would be some culturally defined amount sufficient for food, clothing, shelter, and basic health and education. the maximum might be ten times the minimum. plato thought the factor should be four. why do i suggest ten? what is the actual range of inequality? what does the actual distribution of income look like? economists use lorenz curves, gini coefficients, pareto distributions, lognormal distributions, etc. , to describe the income distribution. but the most graphic and imaginative description i have seen comes from dutch economist jan pen, who organizes a parade of dwarfs and giants. all income recipients will be shrunk or stretched so that their height is proportional to their income. they will then pass by in a parade, shortest first, tallest last. the parade will last exactly one hour and will be observed by you and me, persons of presumed average height. what would be see? at first, there are a few people of negative height, their heads may be as much as ten yards underground. these are people who made losses that year not necessarily poor, but they soon will be if they keep that up. then come lots of gnomes, about the size of a matchstick. many are part-time workers, students, or housewives, who earn very little but share in a family income, so they are not as badly off as one might think. the gnomes file by for about five minutes. then people become noticeably larger, about three feet tall old-age pensioners, divorced women without alimony, many handicapped, some artists. they take another five minutes. the parade has been going on for fifteen minutes before we see people four feet tall, unskilled workers. quite a few are women, many are dark-skinned. and now we continue seeing dwarfs for a long time. then come some office workers, educated folks not dwarfs but definitely short from our perspective. only after the parade has been going for forty-eight minutes, twelve minutes before the end, do we see people our own height, the averageincome people. we see teachers, civil servants, insurance agents, farmers, some skilled workers. six minutes later we see the first of the top ten percent, people about six feet, six inches tall, mostly university graduates. in the last few minutes the giants very suddenly emerge. a lawyer, a doctor, and some accountants about eighteen feet tall, other doctors, judges and executives around sixty feet tall. then comes prince phillip, one hundred and eighty feet tall, and the director of shell oil, more than double that. but should the maximum and minimum limits be applied to income or wealth, or, as scripture seems to suggest, a minimum income coupled with a maximum wealth? let us consider the possibilities. the minimum limit clearly cannot be placed on wealth, since one always has the option of consuming one's wealth and could hardly expect to have it restored year after year. so the minimum limit must be placed on income. the maximum limit could be placed on income, or wealth, or on both. a maximum on wealth, with no maximum on income, would lead to very lavish consumption of all income for one who has reached the wealth maximum. this would simply channel increasing inequality into larger consumption disparities once wealth disparities are limited and, by encouraging consumption, would work against the larger conservation ideals of a sustainable society. putting a maximum on income avoids that problem, but may be thought to give rise to the opposite problem of fostering excessive wealth inequality. but this symmetry does not hold on closer analysis. limiting income directly will also indirectly limit wealth in two ways. first, wealth will be accumulated out of income less rapidly if income is limited. second, previously accumulated wealth will be devalued for those whose income from other wealth or work has reached the maximum income limit. they will have an incentive to consume or divest themselves of wealth the return on which they are not allowed to keep. thus it would seem that direct limits, both maximum and minimum, are most effectively applied to income rather than wealth, although an additional maximum on wealth may be worth further consideration. the simplest and most obvious institution for limiting inequality is, therefore, also the best one namely, maximum and minimum limits on income. so far, the principle of limited inequality has been discussed in terms of a single time period. but does not the principle also apply over time? present people collectively should not be too rich if that implies that future people will be too poor. or, conversely, present people should not be made too poor for the purpose of making future people richer than they need to be. in an era dominated by the idea of economic growth, with its necessary squeezing of present consumption for the sake of investment, the second error has occasionally been recognized. suppose that an economy stayed within the ten-to-one limits to inequality, but was growing in absolute scale: more people and higher per capita consumption. although at every point in time the limits to inequality would be respected, over time these limits would not be maintained. either growth would eventually make the future vastly richer, or ecological collapse would make it vastly poorer or, likely, the first followed by the second. since the issues of overpopulation and ecological destruction were not important in biblical times we have little specific guidance about these issues in the judeo-christian religious tradition. as mentioned earlier, sustainability was more or less taken for granted. ancient israel's economy was pastoral or agricultural, small scale, and solar-based almost automatically sustainable. i say "almost" because the laws mandating fallow for the land, not taking the bird that is hatching eggs, not destroying trees in war, for instance, indicate a concern for sustainability that suggests it was not totally automatic, nor taken for granted. high death rates naturally kept the population from growing very rapidly, so that overall the economy was in a near steady state, as it would have to be in order to return to the initial historical circumstances of the jubilee. under these conditions it could not be argued that no maximum was needed as long as everyone was getting richer and that it mattered little if the rich got richer faster than the poor got richer. in a steady state, if the rich get richer the poor must get poorer, not only relatively but absolutely. if the total is limited there must be a maximum limit on individual income. if there is also a minimum, then, by and large, the higher the minimum the lower must be the maximum. many would argue that a steady-state economy among the covenant people was a fortuitous circumstance of history having nothing to do with divine revelation. science and technology have since removed the natural limits that necessitated the steady state and in particular the need for a maximum income. keep the minimum income, they say, but once poverty is abolished we need not worry about inequality. furthermore, increasing inequality may be necessary to stimulate growth, which can be used to raise the minimum. there are two points to make in reply. first, it really does matter how far apart the rich and the poor are from the point of view of community. unlimited inequality is inconsistent with community, no matter how well-off the poorest are. even relative poverty breeds resentment, and riches insulate and harden the heart. conviviality, solidarity, and brotherhood weaken with economic distance. political power tends to follow relative income and cannot be allowed to concentrate too far in either a theocracy or a democracy without leading to a plutocracy. errors can of course be made at each of the three steps. our religious insight might be wrong, perhaps too insensitive, or perhaps too fanatical. the translation of a basic religious insight into an ethical principle may be historically biased or too one-sided, even if the basic insight is true. the derivation of specific economic policies from a general principle of right action in the world could be mistaken. even when our ethical principle is sound, our faulty understanding of how the world works sometimes leads to policies that have effects opposite from those we desired. exponential growth has taken us, in a surprisingly short time, as i have argued, from a relatively empty world to a relatively full world full of people and their furniture. economic growth made the world full of us and our things, but relatively empty of what had been there before that which now has been assimilated into us and our things, namely, the natural lifesupport systems that we have recently started calling "natural capital" out of belated recognition of both their utility and their scarcity. further expansion of the human niche now frequently increases environmental costs faster than it increases production benefits, thus ushering in a new era of antieconomic growth, growth that impoverishes rather than enriches because it costs more at the margin than it is worth. this antieconomic growth makes it harder, not easier, to cure poverty and protect the biosphere. gnp continues to grow while the welfare of the people declines. out of confusion, or perhaps out of idolatry, we continue to mistake the symbol for the reality symbolized. completely nonreligious people may hold this vision simply because it conforms to the facts of experience. the alternative preanalytic vision, the one that supports most economic analysis today, is that the economy is the total system and is unconstrained in its growth by anything. this vision concedes that nature may be finite, but sees it as just a sector of the economy, for which other sectors can substitute without limiting overall growth in any important way. the latter vision somehow fits with the idea that human beings are fundamentally creators rather than creatures. i hesitate to call these visions religious insights. but preanalytic visions share with religious ones the feature that ensures that we can never escape them by analysis: they define the terms of analysis and therefore cannot provide us with a perspective that could refute their own viewpoints. their hold on us is in part one of faith and commitment. the vision of economy as subsystem is not the same as the fundamental religious insight that the world is god's creation, and that we and all our little creations are part of and limited by that larger creation, but it is certainly more in harmony with that insight than the vision of man's economy as the total system with nature a subsector whose services can be substituted by other sectors. the analytical consequences of these two preanalytic visions are, as i have argued, enormously different: the economy-assubsystem vision leads to the quest for an optimal scale of the human niche, beyond which growth should cease; the economy-as-total-system vision leads to growth forever as the norm. also, we do have some notion of how much is sufficient for a good life, even though there will be disagreement. much thought and clarification is needed here, but, clearly, at one extreme life can be stunted by poverty, and just as clearly, at the other extreme life is not improved and is even harmed by surfeit and excess. it is not too much to expect that we could come up with a reasonable range of inequality limits, notwithstanding the chorus of econosophists who will ask, who are you to impose your personal tastes on everyone else? etc. , etc. , ad nauseam. if the cluster of values affirmed above were logically reducible to "personal tastes," and if continual growth were biophysically possible, then this common objection would have force. the fact that both presuppositions of this objection are clearly wrong is indicative of the low level of argument that is customary in what currently passes for serious economic discourse. but the value of a sawmill is zero without forests; the value of fishing boats is zero without fish; the value of refineries is zero without remaining deposits of petroleum; the value of dams is zero without rivers and catchment areas with sufficient forest cover to prevent erosion and siltation of the lake behind the dam. empty verbiage about the intergenerational invisible hand and the near-perfect sustainability of man-made for natural capital is just the usual confused attempt to give a technical nonanswer to a moral question. i believe that god the creator exists now, as well as in the past and future, and is the source of our obligation to creation, including other creatures, and especially including members of our own species who are suffering. our ability and inclination to enrich the present at the expense of the future, and of other species, is as real and as sinful as our tendency to further enrich the wealthy at the expense of the poor. to hand back to god the gift of creation in a degraded state capable of supporting less life, less abundantly, and for a shorter future, is surely a sin. if it is a sin to kill and to steal, then surely it is a sin to destroy the carrying capacity of the earth to support life now and in the future. sometimes we find ourselves in an impasse in which sins are unavoidable. we may sometimes have to sacrifice future life in order to preserve present life but to sacrifice future life to protect present luxury and extravagance is a very different matter. the first step in this change is to recognize, as i have argued in chapter 2, that there are three economic problems allocation, distribution, and scale. these three economic problems represent separate goals and solving one does not solve the others. today we are trying to kill three birds with two stones. the first goal is the problem of allocation, the division of the resources among their alternative commodity uses that is, how many resources to allocate for cars, for bicycles, for shoes, for beans. an optimal allocation is one that is efficient in giving people what they want and are able to pay for. the instrument for attaining efficiency is relative prices, which measure marginal opportunity costs. the second goal is distribution, the division of the resources in their final product embodiments among alternative people that is, how many bicycles or beans are distributed to you, to me, and to other people. an optimal distribution is one that is within the bounds of equity and sufficiency. the policy instrument is transfer payments and limits to inequality. but today the problem of optimal scale can no longer be avoided. it was avoided in the past because as long as scale was small it was possible for economic growth to be a central organizing principle of society. growth was put in first place because it would presumably wash away the problem of poverty in a cascade of abundance vouchsafed by the amazing grace of compound interest. there would be no need for redistribution; indeed, premature redistribution would only slow the growth machine. growth would also wash away inefficiency without the political discipline of getting relative prices to reflect full social and environmental costs. but scale too has its limits. it has a maximum, and well before the maximum it has an optimum a point beyond which further growth costs more than it is worth. evidence increases daily that we have passed that optimum scale. since the earth itself is developing without growing, it follows that a subsystem of the earth must eventually conform itself to the same behavioral mode of development without growth, alias "sustainable development. " this could happen at any scale which is below carrying capacity. the optimal scale, following our basic ethic, would be the one that maximizes lives ever lived over time at a sufficient level of per capita resource use for a good life. at present all we know for sure is that the optimal scale must be sustainable, that the economic subsystem must not overload the ecosystem to the point of reducing future life. for now it is a sufficient challenge to strive for a sustainable scale. later we can worry about which sustainable scale is optimal. the technical and economic problems involved in achieving sustainability are not that difficult. the hard problem is overcoming our addiction to growth as the favored way to assert our creative power, and the idolatrous belief whether we think in religious terms or not that our derived creative power is autonomous and unlimited. such idolatry cannot admit that the elimination of poverty requires recognition of limits, not faster growth limits to growth in per capita resource use, limits to population growth, limits to the growth of inequality. refusal to recognize these creaturely limits results in growth beyond the carrying capacity of the earth, with its consequent destruction, followed by a reduction in cumulative number of lives ever to be lived in conditions of material sufficiency, as well as in the premature deaths of many people now living below sufficiency. but carping academic relativists can point out that there would be different plimsoll lines for fresh and salt water, that the line is not just a physical measurement but involves some social judgment of acceptable risk, that the technical design of the ship will influence the position of the line, etc. yet in spite of all these difficulties we do manage to draw a reasonable line somewhere, to the immense benefit of generations of seafarers. likewise for the economy, it is more important that a limit be placed somewhere than that the limit be at exactly the right place. it has a membership base of around 1,500 world-wide, and is a participatory, broad-based organization, with all the problems that entails. its growth was due both to the importance of the ideas addressed and issues that it raised, and to the exceptional energy and leadership of its president, robert costanza. its stance toward mainstream economics has been more critical than that of the other institution, the beijer institute for ecological economics. the latter is a part of the swedish royal academy of science, and is run by karl-goran maler and partha dasgupta, with a board of directors that, although diverse and well-qualified, is nevertheless dominated by an establishment point of view. it is an elite, top-down institution with no participatory base. its leadership's orientation is difficult to distinguish from environmental economics of the most neoclassical kind. however, it does foster a relatively open research agenda, focusing to date on biodiversity, common property, and complex systems. differences in willingness to pay, for whatever reason, are held to be legitimate reasons for competitive advantage, whereas differences in degree of cost internalization are not. two points need to be made in response. first, there really are large differences in degree of cost internalization, independent of differences in willingness to pay. second, even if the issue is restricted to willingness to pay, it is quite possible for one country's willingness to pay to be so far out of line with that of another country as to constitute a good reason for restricting trade. if country x has a very low willingness to pay to avoid sixteen-hour-per-day child labor, that fact creates in country y no obligation to subject its own citizens to similar conditions, or even to accept the effect that such a low willingness to pay would, through free trade, exert on its own employment structure and community life. for many topics i would suggest the training to happen in a group. especially for communication ability, even if the emphasis is on the dialogue between two persons. an important benefit of the training is the exchange among different people. there, one can observe how a colleague performs in a role-play and how he behaves. individual coaching makes sense if the topics are too personal to be shared with others in a group. especially at the higher hierarchical levels, there are themes where one does not want a colleague to be present. and then there is the pragmatic issue of time: there exist, of course themes that could be dealt with in a group setting, but it is quite difficult if principals cannot make it for the same date. here i want to focus particularly on these second types of practices and dynamics and conceptualize them as constitutive of particular scalings of the global, albeit ones we do not usually recognize as such. a particular challenge in the work of identifying these types of processes and actors as part of globalization is that they often continue to be experienced and codified as national. this calls for the need to decode at least some of what we call the national. studying the global, then, entails not only a focus on that which is explicitly global in scale, but also a focus on locally scaled practices and conditions articulated with global dynamics, and a focus on the multiplication of cross-border connections among various localities fed by the recurrence of certain conditions across localities. further, it entails recognizing that many of the globally scaled dynamics, such as the global capital market, actually are partly embedded in sub-national sites and move between these differently scaled practices and organizational forms. for instance, the global capital market is constituted both through electronic markets with global span, and through locally embedded conditions, i. e. financial centres and all they entail, from infrastructure to systems of trust. a focus on such sub-nationally based processes and dynamics of globalization requires methodologies and theorizations that engage not global only global scalings but also sub-national scalings processes, thereby destabilizing older hierarchies of scale and conceptions of nested scalings. studying global processes and conditions that get constituted sub-nationally has some advantages over studies of globally scaled dynamics; but it also poses specific challenges. it does make possible the use of long-standing research techniques, from quantitative to qualitative, in the study of globalization. it also gives us a bridge for using the wealth of national and subnational data sets as well as specialized scholarships such as area studies. these types of studies, however, need to be situated in conceptual architectures that are not quite those held by the researchers who generated these research techniques and data sets, as their efforts mostly had little to do with globalization. a second of these instances, partly connected to the first, is the role of the new interactive technologies in repositioning the local, thereby inviting us to a critical examination of how we conceptualize the local. through these new technologies a financial services firm becomes a microenvironment with continuous global span. but so do resource-poor organizations or households: they can also become microenvironments with global span, as might be the case with activist organizations. these microenvironments can be oriented to other such microenvironments located far away, thereby destabilizing the notion of context which is often imbricated in that of the local and the notion that physical proximity is one of the attributes or markers of the local. a critical reconceptualization of the local along these lines entails an at least partial rejection of the notion that local scales are inevitably part of nested hierarchies of scale running from the local to the regional, the national, the international. a third instance concerns a specific set of interactions between global dynamics and particular components of national states. the crucial conditionality here is the partial embeddedness of the global in the national, of which the global city is perhaps emblematic. my main argument here is that insofar as specific structurations of the global inhabit what has historically been constructed and institutionalized as national territory, this engenders a variety of negotiations. one set of outcomes evident today is what i describe as an incipient, highly specialized and partial denationalization of specific components of national states. with few exceptions, most prominently among which is a growing scholarship in geography, the social sciences have not had critical distance, i. e. historicized, the scale of the national. the consequence has been a tendency to take it as a fixed scale, reifying it, and, more generally, to neutralize the question of scaling, or at best to reduce scaling to a hierarchy of size. associated with this tendency is also the often uncritical assumption that these scales are mutually exclusive, most pertinently for my argument here, that the scale of the national is mutually exclusive with that of the global. a qualifying variant which allows for mutual imbrications, though of a very limited 1 sort, can be seen when scaling is conceived of as a nested hierarchy. the global project of powerful firms, the new technical capabilities associated with information and communications technologies, and some components of the work of states, have together constituted scales other than the national as strategic today. most especially among these are subnational scales such as the global city, and supranational scales such as global markets. these processes and practices also contained a destabilizing of the scale hierarchies that expressed the power relations and political economy of an earlier period. these were, and to a good extent continue to be, organized in terms of institutional size and territorial scope: from the international, down to the national, the regional, the urban, to the local, with the national functioning as the articulator of this particular configuration. that is to say, the crucial practices and institutional arrangements that constituted the system occurred at the national level. notwithstanding multiple different temporal frames, the history of the modern state can be read as the work of rendering national just about all crucial features of society: authority; identity; territory; security; law; and capital accummulation. if securing these rights, options and powers, entailed an even partial relinquishing of components of state authority as constructed over the last century, then we can posit that this sets up the conditions for a transformation in the position of the state. it also signals a necessary engagement by national states in the process of globalization. finally, it signals the formation of new geographies of power confronting national states. i would like to conclude this lecture by returning to the points of method and interpretation i began with. in this lecture i have focused on a set of instantiations of the global that are actually sited in what are usually represented or thought of as national institutional orders and dynamics. these range from forms of globality centred on localized struggles and actors that are part of cross-border networks, through formations such as global cities, to specific types of state work geared towards accommodating global actors and their interests. cutting across these diverse processes and domains is a research and theorization agenda. in this lecture i have tried to construct this agenda by bringing together different strands of a rapidly growing scholarship to which geographers have made enormously important contributions, more so than other social scientists. this agenda is driven by at least some of the following major concerns. residents of the rockridge neighborhood in oakland, calif. were found to use transit the most. the neighborhood is characterized by walkable, tree lined, small scaled streets with a main street type commercial spine of small shops, cafes, and services that is well connected with a transit station. some have speculated that walkers tend to live in walkable neighborhoods and that neighborhood form itself does not generate walking. however, in this study self selection does not explain the frequent walking trips of rockridge residents. people who did not value walkability in their neighborhood chose to walk just as much as those who did. we apply the new method to over 1,000 species in several countries of different size and report on the applicability of our method and discuss problems that derive from the currently available data. our method has several major advantages compared to currently available methods. it is applicable to any geographic range, allows automatization, given database availability, and is readily adjustable to future data improvements. it further has comparably low data demands by exploiting one of the most commonly available information on biodiversity, i. e. distribution maps. we believe that our method allows the allocation of the limited resources in nature conservation in the most sensible way, e. g. the sharing of monitoring duties, effectively selecting networks of protected areas, improving knowledge on biodiversity, and closing information gaps in many species groups. a role for rem sleep in synaptic consolidation the active system consolidation hypothesis leaves open one challenging issue: although it explains a re-activationdependent temporary enhancement and integration of newly encoded memories into the network of preexisting long-term memories, active system consolidation alone does not explain how post-learning sleep strengthens memory traces and stabilizes underlying synaptic connections in the long term. hence, sleep presumably also supports a synaptic form of consolidation for stabilizing memories and this could be the function of rem sleep. this high level of activation could act non-specifically to amplify local synaptic plasticity in an environment that, compared with the awake state, is almost entirely unbiased by external stimulus inputs. the disentangled, localized nature of synaptic consolidation might also explain why rem sleep alone fails to improve declarative memory consolidation: this process essentially relies on the integration of features from different memories in different memory systems and corresponding information transfer between widespread brain areas, that is, sws-dependent system consolidation. the functionalist critique, in my view, fails to take into account the complex relationship between agency and structure. structural arguments, which are typical of the modernist paradigm are not necessarily determinist arguments. rather they point to the importance of structural change and the ways in which different political initiatives or ideologies are helped or hindered by structural conditions. politics is always about experiment; some policies succeed in the sense of increasing the legitimacy of political institutions and others fail. success, at least to some extent, depends on underlying structural conditions. the validity of the modernist argument does not derive from a linear relationship between nationalism and industrialisation or the rise of the modern state. the modernist argument, for example, does not need to hold that nationalism arose in order to create the conditions for industrialisation nor that nationalism is an inevitable outcome of industrialisation, although i do think that one aspect of industrialisation, namely print technology is a critical component in the rise of nationalism. related to the sense of insecurity is the encounter with globalisation and the sense of impotence that arises when crucial decisions that affect every day life are taken further and further away. the young men that committed suicide on september 11 were all educated in the west. this is typical of many nationalist and religious militants. seselj, the leader of the extreme nationalist serb party, had written his phd at the university of michigan. many of those who are mobilised are migrants, either from countryside to town or from south to west, who have experienced the loss of ties to their places of origin and yet do not feel integrated in their new homes. i have defended the modernist argument that nationalism is a constructed or imagined idea and that its success is derived from the fact that the idea suited the structural conditions associated with modernity. it provided the glue that made possible the modern state and modern industry. i have also argued that the strength of the idea depends on politics as well as culture and that politics is more important than culture in open democratic societies. i explain the passion associated with nationalism not in terms of the strength of culture but as a consequence of war and the role of war in constructing nationalism. confucius computer is a new form of illogical computing based on the eastern paradigms of balance and harmony, which are radically different from the ancient greek logic normally experienced in computing. it aims to facilitate inter-generational cultural communication by enabling young and old to interact and explore ancient asian cultural heritage. the system uses new media to revive and model these historical philosophies and teachings, presenting them in new contexts, such as online social chat, music and food. this enables people to experience and explore ancient culture using the literacy of digital interactivity. confucianism is an eastern ethical and philosophical system that has had great impact, especially in asian countries, for more than 2500 years, with more and more interest being generated in western society. however confucian philosophies are extremely complex, and thus may not be easily accessible to people especially given the cultural and language barrier. also, traditional passive media provides only a linear understanding of his profound teachings which restricts the learning process. in addition, young people are more inclined to use modern networked and social digital media. hence our vision is to enable users to experience this rich ancient culture using computing technology in an interactive and dynamic way. confucius computer provides a personalized experience, in which users can explore and understand confucianism and eastern culture. in this study, cases of viral meningitis diagnosed in the second year of life between october 1988 and december 1991 were obtained and linked to vaccination records. the observation period for each child is the time during which, if an event arose, it would be sampled. thus, in this study, the observation period includes all time between 366 and 730 days of age and between the 1st october 1988 and 31st december 1991 inclusive: note that it is important to be rigorously precise about ages and timings. based on evidence from previous studies, and on knowledge of the time taken by the mumps virus to replicate, we choose the risk period to include days 15 to 35 inclusive after receipt of mmr. using the information obtained from vaccination records, the exposure histories of all cases during the observation period is documented. note that vaccination histories between ages 331 and 715 days are required so as to classify all days in the observation period as exposed or unexposed. two dominant features emerge from a simple model of corporate finance with excessively optimistic managers and efficient capital markets. first, optimistic managers believe that capital markets undervalue their firm 's risky securities, and may decline positive net present value projects that must be financed externally. second, optimistic managers overvalue their own corporate projects and may wish to invest in negative net present value projects even when they are loyal to shareholders. these results establish an underinvestment overinvestment tradeoff related to free cash flow without invoking asymmetric information or rational agency costs. on the other hand, managerial optimism causes systematically upward biased cash flow forecasts and causes managers to overvalue the firm's investment opportunities. managers without free cash flow may decline taking a negative net present value project that they perceive to be a positive net present value project, because the cost of external finance seems too high. in this situation, free cash flow is harmful. free cash flow alleviates the need to obtain external finance and makes it easier to take negative net present value projects mistakenly perceived to be positive net present value projects. it is important to note, therefore, that there is a limited set of bad decisions that will be made by optimistic managers. when the investment cost i exceeds the high cash flow state rh, then the optimistic managers never take the project. in other words, there are projects that are bad enough that even the most optimistic managers will not take them, because optimism about the probability of the good state can never overcome the fact that the good state is never good enough to cover the investment costs of the project. nevertheless, the range of negative npv projects that the optimistic manager will accept can be large. the criminalization of domestic violence refers to efforts to address domestic violence through the passage and enforcement of criminal and civil laws. this article reviews the social science, legal, and criminal justice literature regarding interventions used to stop domestic violence. theoretical foundations, effectiveness of police interventions, and the use of protective orders are addressed. further explored are prosecution and victim advocacy, court responses, batterers' intervention as a condition of probation, and coordinated community responses to domestic violence. implications are given for social work practice, along with basic information for assisting clients who are victims of violence in their own homes. second, heavy burdens should be placed on the police officers; to not only assist in the temporary protection order stage, but also, in obtaining information on availability of domestic violence and temporary shelters in the area, including phone numbers. concomitantly, the police officer should also be responsible for follow-up calls after the case is disposed of in court. furthermore, police officers need to be aware of abusers placed on probation for domestic violence, so that they will be better able to interact with the probation department, and assist the victim if the abuser violates the court order to stay away. these needs could be met if police departments established domestic violence units, similar to child abuse units currently within many departments. such a unit could help in the facilitation process of those women who want to prosecute their perpetrators. in a particle physics context, even a very successful theory such as quantum electrodynamics cannot be extrapolated from atomic to nuclear energy scales, where the strong interaction dominates over electromagnetism; and again, these two scales are separated by just 6 orders of magnitude. pediatric encounters included walk-in, sick, and routine health care maintenance visits at the pediatric primary care clinic, and initial and follow-up visits at the outpatient lead and failure-to-thrive clinics. both pediatricians and pediatric nurse practitioners provided care to study patients, and patient care was in no way altered by the study, except for the presence of the research assistant and tape recorder. the patients and their families, clinicians, and interpreters were told only that this was a study of patient-physician communication, and they were not aware that errors of medical interpretation would be analyzed. medical jargon, idiomatic expressions, and contextual clarifications may occasionally require medical interpreters to not interpret a phrase word-for-word. thus, any deviations from wordfor-word interpretation in transcripts that were attributable to jargon, idioms, or contextual clarifications were not classified as interpreter errors. because medical interpreters may also act as a cultural broker or advocate, any utterances that could be interpreted as cultural explanations or patient or family advocacy were not classified as interpreter errors. a separate analysis of the relationship of the number of verbal exchanges, the interlocutor, and the quality of the interpretation will be reported elsewhere in a separate paper. although a recent institute of medicine report15 has drawn much attention to medical errors, errors of medical interpretation have not generally been included in the discussion of sources of medical errors. in this study, several documented common mechanisms for medical errors16,17 were observed among the interpreter errors of clinical consequence, including being told to use the wrong dose, frequency, duration or mode of administration of drugs and other therapeutic interventions, and omitting relevant clinical information on drug allergies and the past medical history. these findings suggest that for lep patients, providing qualified, trained medical interpreters may be an important means of reducing medical errors and improving the quality of medical care. it also seems reasonable that as part of ongoing quality improvement efforts, medical institutions might consider periodically audiotaping or videotaping a representative subsample of clinical encounters where medical interpreters are used, to identify and monitor the overall number and categories of interpreter errors, the number of interpreter errors of potential clinical consequence, and medical errors that result from interpreter errors. uniformity of global curriculum, instruction, and testing might be the result of worldwide trends discussed in this article. global educational discourses on the knowledge economy, lifelong learning, and human capital education are influencing the decisions of national policy makers. research shows that most igos and ngos, in particular the world bank and oecd, are also supporting educational plans tied to the knowledge economy and human capital development. gender equality in education is a priority of most global organizations. uniformity of global curricula is being supported by international comparisons of scores resulting from the timss and pisa. neoliberal discourses and the gats have stimulated a push for global privatization of educational services, in particular in higher education and the sale of information services and books by multinational corporations. brain circulation might also contribute to a growing uniformity of global educational practices because of local pressures to ensure an education that will help graduates participate in the global economy. the growth of english as the language of global commerce is making the teaching of english a fixture in most national curricula. ngos, in particular human rights and environmental organizations, are supporting an agenda of progressive human rights and environmental education. and, in sharp contrast to dominant global trends, indigenous groups are demanding the right to use traditional educational practices. also, some groups are concerned about the loss of local cultures and identity with the trend to making english the global language. these disputes are reinforcing the importance of global educational practices while, at the same time, ensuring possible changes in their current development. these observations help us to understand what can correctly be meant by logical necessity. contrary to what the dominating view of most philosophers was for a long time, there is no necessity about actually drawing logical inferences. even when g is a logical consequence of f , one does not have to think of g as soon as one thinks of f . what is the case is that g must be the case as soon as f is true. you cannot bring it about that f without ipso facto bringing it about that g. hence it is permissible in truth-preserving reasoning to move from f to g. policy and program decisions involve choices among different ways of preparing teachers. these choices are shrouded in increasingly contentious debates as teacher shortages reach crisis proportions. yet, research on special education teacher education is almost nonexistent. findings from comparative research documenting the characteristics of effective teacher education programs can inform these choices, but these findings should be grounded in what we know from previous research in general teacher education. to assist educators, we have analyzed literature in general and special teacher education toward two ends. first, we present a framework, derived from work in general education, for analyzing teacher education programs. second, we use this framework to analyze practice in teacher education in special education. specifically, we conducted an exhaustive review of special education program descriptions and evaluations. we conclude by describing steps necessary to improve the special education teacher education research base. our comparison of special education teacher education programs to exemplary general education programs suggests that certain features probably influence the quality of beginning special education teachers. for example, carefully designed field experiences that allow prospective teachers to integrate information they are acquiring in coursework may enable better knowledge and skill development in beginning teachers than programs that do not have this integration. additionally, it is reasonable to assume that programs that facilitate a high degree of faculty and student collaboration and focus on instructional methods and knowledge for addressing student diversity will result in better outcomes for beginning special educators. research-based link between teacher education program components and beginning teacher and student outcomes are necessary, however, to document the ways in which special education teacher education makes a difference. finally, we need more research examining the impact of osep funding on teacher preparation. to date, we know little about the impact of osep-funded programs on teacher quality or retention in special education. we do not know if osepfunded programs are sustainable, what institutional factors affect the sustainability of these projects, and if these programs embrace effective practices in teacher education. given the significant investment of federal dollars in the preparation of special education teachers, we need to know a good deal more about the impact of this investment. relationships found through relationship mining must satisfy two criteria: statistical significance, and interestingness. statistical significance is generally assessed through standard statistical tests, such as f-tests. because large numbers of tests are conducted, it is necessary to control for finding relationships through chance. one method for doing this is to use post-hoc statistical methods or adjustments which control for the number of tests conducted, such as the bonferroni adjustment. this method can increase confidence that an individual relationship found was not likely to be due to chance. an alternate method is to assess the overall probability of the pattern of results found, using monte carlo methods. this method assesses how likely it is that the overall pattern of results arose due to chance. power, politics and guardians this paper argues that archival institutions have tremendous power. as rose claims, institutions such as galleries and museums produce a certain type of knowledge, and in doing so they create a certain type of visitor. these institutions decide which pictures to make visible and which to keep locked inside the depository. 4 as institutions they lay out a certain public space, for example by placing chairs and benches in front of some pictures and not others. they allow visitors to touch some things whilst others remain protected. archival institutions operate on a similar principle, using their productive power to issue catalogues and to grant researchers access to some materials and not to others. within these institutions it is their guardians who execute this power over visitors and researchers. in the archival institutions that i gained access to, i felt pressured with only a few hours to get through the documents, knowing that the next day new boxes of data would arrive. i felt frustrated that i could not change my requests based on discoveries in the boxes i searched on one day, and that i would have to wait an additional two to three working days for the boxes that i chose. i often felt lost, as there were hundreds and hundreds of boxes to choose from with no real description, and my selections were circumstantial or just pure guesswork. in one archival institution, however, i also felt privileged as i was able to negotiate access to data that were still in sealed boxes. but in most cases these privileges were disheartening as they led to further complications. the documents were often not in order, and many pages that seemed important were missing. pressured by the limited time in which i had access to archival documents, and by the restrictions implemented by the guardians, i decided to use a camera and photograph many pages of data, even if they seemed only distantly relevant to my research. i counted on substantial analysis at a later point. this was a research approach that i had not considered before. i had been expecting to study the documents carefully before attempting to copy or photograph them. i was also expecting that i would pre-select my data from well-described lists of contents from the archival boxes. under the circumstances and pressures already described, i decided to take the approach of collecting and creating databases of data that may be only potentially relevant to my research. i hoped to carefully re-select them and analyse them in the evenings. my approach therefore was a very raw data collection. i consciously chose quantity over quality, and after some days of data collection, despite my initial disapproval of this approach, i began to realise its potential advantages. i learnt that the archive had changed locations and storage areas many times over the past years, and that it had lost historic documents and materials in the process of moving, or due to incorrect storage and handling. the new location of the archive was in the middle of a residential suburb, in the building of a former kindergarten, a place not suited to storing and researching data. the archive operated under restricted opening hours, giving researchers only three hours a day to study, and it was closed on fridays. it was not the power of the guardian, but of the whole apparatus of the archive, with its rules and protocols, that dictated when and how i was able to access and collect the data. derrida refers to such institutional procedures as the science of the archives. 24 and in this case the archive told me: you need to wait. after a week of waiting i received an email from the guardian advising me that the archive did not hold any information or data that would be useful for my research, and that i should focus my research on other archives. however, encouraged by discussions with guardians from other archives who claimed that important data were indeed held there, i decided not to give up. i called the archive and requested an appointment with a higher-ranked guardian in an attempt to get past the bureaucratic wall. following many long discussions, the guardian i eventually got to speak to asked me why i was even interested in this particular period of time. the guardian did not want to provide me with a list of archival holdings, and as i noted in my research diary, i was beginning to wonder whether such a catalogue even existed or i was simply not permitted to see it. more phone calls led to an interesting turn of events: the guardian found some kindergarten chronicles; and they were available for me to access. the first point to note is that sackett et al. consider ebm from the viewpoint of an individual medical practitioner who needs to decide how to treat a particular patient exhibiting a particular set of symptoms. for ebse our viewpoint is likely to be somewhat different. organizations, individual developers seldom have the option to pick and choose the technologies they are going to use. technology adoption is often decided either by project managers on a project by project basis, or by senior managers on a departmental or organizational basis. furthermore, in software engineering, our concern is not usually the specific task to which the technology is applied but the outcome of the project of which the task is a part. ebm researchers point out that it is important that the question is broad enough to allow examination of variation in the study factor and across populations. in ebse, the study factor would be the technology of interest. the technology should not be specified at too high a level of abstraction e. g. design methods, software lifecycles, or management methods, but must be general enough to identify the majority of relevant empirical studies, for example oo methods, agile methods, or cost estimation methods. for some questions it may be necessary to be even more precise e. g. contract-based specifications, pair-programming, or statistically-derived estimation models. it is even more difficult to determine the correct the population of interest. the population of interest may be categorised in many dimensions based on experience of technology users, types of problem addressed by the technology, application area. however, even fairly broad categories may be counter-productive if useful empirical evidence imposed by such categorisation. although we have no equivalent to the cochrane collaboration, there are many abstracting services that articles. software provide organizations such as the ieee, with its database ieee xplore, and the acm, with its digital library provide access to databases of articles. the articles are indexed by author names, and keywords and usually have links to abstracts and sometimes access to the original articles. such indexing makes it easier to search for information regarding a problem area or find an answer to a specific question. there are no generally accepted guidelines or standard protocols for conducting recent dispute between berry and tichy and sobel and clarkson over the conduct of an experiment into formal methods makes it clear that empirical software engineering is badly in need of guidelines and protocols. kitchenham et al. proposed some preliminary guidelines for formal experiments and surveys. however, they do not address observational, and investigatory studies. furthermore, because they attempt types of to address several different empirical study, the guidelines are not as specific, nor as detailed as the consort statement. however, there is a broader level of feedback in medicine. for example, individual doctors are responsible for reporting unanticipated side-effects of drugs. this contributes to the evidence associated with a particular treatment and may lead to further basic research. it would be useful if this model could be applied in software engineering. however, in a competitive industry, there is little incentive for individual companies to assist their competitors by reporting good and bad experiences with for in addition, new experiences with a technology to be disentangled from the particular context in which it was used. for example a design method depends on a preceding requirements analysis. it must consider constraints imposed by the software and hardware platform and programming timescales, and budget. it must be languages, integrated with appropriate coding and testing techniques. thus, it would be difficult to confirm that a design technique had a significant impact on final product reliability. in general, it is difficult to determine a causal link between a particular technique and a desired project outcome when the application of the technique and the final outcome are temporally removed from one another, and there are many other tasks and activities that could also affect the final outcome. another approach is to assemble data sets of project information, either from a single company or from many different companies in order to establish benchmarks for quality or productivity. in theory, such data sets could be used to assess the impact of software engineering technologies on quality or productivity. the major problem with this approach is the difficulty of obtaining a valid sample of project. in order to draw valid conclusions projects should be a random sample from a defined population. however, both definition of the population and obtaining a random sample are problematic for software projects . however, there are also scientific problems that may be more difficult to address. the problem of evaluating technologies that rely on human skill means that our experiments will always be vulnerable to subject and experimenter bias. there are approaches that can be used to reduce the scale of the problem. more difficult to resolve is the problem of the complexity of the software lifecycle. it will always be difficult to obtain reliable evidence about the behaviour of technologies in largescale projects. case 2: a 75-year-old man with history of congestive heart failure, knee osteoarthritis, and hypertension presented for elective knee replacement. he volunteered regularly but had been feeling less able to do so lately because of knee pain and fatigue. his elective knee replacement was performed without complications. on postoperative day 1, he became delirious while taking low-dose narcotics, and fell while trying to get out of bed. he developed incontinence, and refused to participate in physical therapy. on postoperative day 5, he was transferred to a subacute rehabilitation unit, where his delirium slowly resolved. he required 2 full weeks of in-patient care and a month of outpatient rehabilitation to regain mobility and independence. recent developments in the understanding of telomere biology also show important potential toward improved understanding of the altered biology from which frailty may develop. telomeres are the repetitive dna sequences and specialized proteins that cap and protect the ends of linear chromosomes. as organisms age and cellular reproduction cycles mount, these capping structures shorten, and this, in turn, can trigger a cellular dna damage response and ultimately apoptosis, cellular senescence, or genomic instability and the generation of abnormal proteins. 42 early translational studies have indeed demonstrated that agematched older adults with the shortest telomeres died, on average, 5 years earlier than those with the longest telomeres. 43 although the exact mechanism by which shortened telomeres lead to early mortality is not known, studies of the molecular and tissue pathophysiology that results from shortened telomeres may be applicable to the study of the biology of frailty. these studies indicate that several interventions can alter aspects of frailty. many may be appropriate for future clinical trials that specifically target frailty as an outcome. exercise, especially strength training, is the most robust inincluding tervention to improve components of frailty, muscle strength and physical functioning. increases in protein intake above the current recommended dietary allowance, probably in conjunction with exercise, may be needed for older people to maintain skeletal mass and increase it. strength training combined with protein supplementation has been shown to improve strength and muscle mass in very elderly sedentary nursing home patients,51 but only exercise appears to increase strength and function; that is, nutritional supplementation without exercise was not effective. in addition to exercise approaches, individualized preventive rehabilitation therapies in frail older adults that include organized physical therapy interventions have been shown to decrease functional decline. 52 it was suggested that further development of such combined approaches may help improve function and quality of life in frail older adults. however, every software engineering study should strive for a high degree of external validity as the world of software is simply too large and too complex to study comprehensively. it is important that researchers choose representative projects to study and then generalize the results from. over the millennia, many different religious groups have attempted to formulate the central virtues and duties of doctors in various ways, and to articulate their particular responses to issues within medical ethics. the roman catholic church is thus not the only christian church to have well-developed views on a range of issues in medical ethics; there are a number of protestant churches with distinct positions as well. in addition, there are of course extensive non-christian religious teachings. jewish and islamic medical ethics, for example, articulate the duties and responsibilities of jewish or islamic doctors, and in east asia and the indian subcontinent, traditions of medical ethics are intertwined with taoism, confucianism, buddhism, shintoism, and hinduism. increasingly, moral philosophers began to address themselves to such practical ethical issues as abortion and euthanasia, the ethics of war and of capital punishment, the allocation of scarce medical resources, animal rights, and so on. they frequently dared to question what had not been questioned before. since some of these issues related to practices in health care and the biological sciences, this movement in philosophy helped to establish bioethics as a critical discipline. in these cases, international conventions dictate that such countries own the material in question and, as a consequence, negotiations over benefits must take place between the commercial organization interested in utilizing biological materials and the identifiable source country. it could be argued that this could serve as a template for the benefit sharing of traditional knowledge, too, given that knowledge without the biological source material is useless. it would also resolve the question of how to distribute the resource, and to whom, because the government, as the legitimate representative of the citizens of the state, could fulfill that role, and be held accountable for it. one problem with this approach is that it assumes that these countries have legitimate governments with reasonable claims to represent their people, a state of affairs that cannot always be assumed. if, on balance, more qualityor disability-adjusted life-years are generated because of the existence of medical tourism, humanitarians would be supportive of it. as above, humanitarians would not accept linking access to essential medicines in an impoverished country to its ability to attract medical tourism income. proponents of the political model would likely analyze the kinds of agreements that are struck between developed and developing countries with a view to ensuring that the peoples living in developing countries are not being treated unfairly or harmed as a result of medical-tourism-related service contracts. of course, individual choice and liberty are central to the contemporary use of reproductive technologies, and thus appear to distinguish modern efforts to influence the type of people who come into the world from older eugenic projects. this is also true of arguments for biomedical enhancements of humans, in efforts to extend life expectancy for instance. this might challenge the claim that there is a kind of totalitarianism at the heart of bioethics. even so, foucault makes it clear that the direct intervention of the state is not necessarily required for the efficacy of biopolitical measures. as a special class of games, security games study the interaction between malicious attackers and defenders. security games and their solutions are used as a basis for formal decision making and algorithm development as well as for predicting attacker behavior. depending on the type of information available to dms, the action spaces and the goals of the dms, security games can vary from simple deterministic ones to more complex stochastic and limited information formulations and are applicable to security problems in a variety of areas ranging from intrusion detection to privacy and cryptography in wireless, vehicular and computer networks. while gamification is gaining ground in business, marketing, corporate management, health insurance, ecology and wellness initiatives, its application in education is still an emerging trend. this article presents a study of the published empirical research on the application of gamification to education. the study is limited to papers that discuss explicitly the effects of use of game elements in specific educational contexts. it employs a systematic mapping design. accordingly, a categorical structure for classifying the research results is proposed based on the extracted topics discussed in the reviewed papers. the categories include gamification design principles, game mechanics, context of applying gamification, consisting of level, and academic subject, implementation and evaluation. by mapping the published work to the classification criteria and analyzing them, the study highlights the directions of the currently conducted empirical research on applying gamification to education. it also indicates some major obstacles and needs, such as the need for a proper technological support, the need for controlled studies demonstrating reliable positive or negative results of using specific game elements in particular educational contexts, etc. as it can be seen, the most utilized gamification design principles in educational context are visual status, social engagement, freedom of choice, freedom to fail, and rapid feedback. papers that discuss the principles of goals and personalization are rare. the likely reason for this is the one mentioned before: these are fundamental principles for instruction and educational applications, being the target of a long standing pedagogical and educational computing research. so, advancements related to them would not be considered as a result of gamifying education. type of application. this criterion is about the context of the gamification application, i. e. where gamification is applied. the papers were grouped in the following categories: for gamifying courses without online gamification support, for gamifying moocs or online courses, for gamifying blended learning courses, for gamifying e-learning sites, and for developing gamification support platforms. figure 4 shows the number of papers in each category. as it can been seen, the majority of the reported case studies are on gamification of blended learning courses. the study revealed that there are a lot of publications on the use of gamification in education but the majority are only describing some game mechanics and dynamics and re-iterating their possible use in educational context, while true empirical research on the effectiveness of incorporating game elements in learning environments is still scarce. in addition, most of the empirical studies do not include a proper evaluation. this makes it difficult to conduct a meta-analysis of the results of these studies and speculate on general reasons for their successes or negative results. while the mapping study identifies some emerging tendencies in utilizing certain configurations of game mechanics and gamification design principles, their effect in learning context remains to be demonstrated in practice. although proper evaluation is mostly missing, the majority of the authors of the reviewed papers share the opinion that gamification has the potential to improve learning, if it is well designed and used correctly. therefore, more substantial empirical research is needed to investigate, in particular, the motivating effects of using single game elements in specific educational contexts and for particular types of learners. this would inform instructors who are interested in gamifying their courses and help them in deciding what game elements to use in their specific context. the interest for studies of the border, in the meaning of the construction and representation of difference, could be considered as the off-spring of the postmodern turn in social sciences. it has been put forward in this debate that borders are the product of our knowledge and interpretation and that they as such produce a disciplining lens through which we perceive and imagine the world. as a consequence, it has been claimed that the difference between the ontology of borders, the study of what borders are, and the epistemology of borders, the study of what and how we know what borders are, has decreased if not disappeared. the insight that the making of borders is the product of our own social practices and habitus has lead to the study of borders beyond merely states or nations. as is explainable when basing oneself on postmodernism, much emphasis has been put on the form and the story by which borders are represented and symbolised. it has lead to a bordering script, by which i mean that the construction, the making of borders by now is almost turned into a template, largely based on the works of post-structuralists like foucault, derrida, bourdieu and de certeau, that is used for studying the everyday social construction of border x in case y. despite the intrinsic value of each and every study copying this template for a specific case or adding an interesting insight on another performance outlet of the construction of borders, i believe the present debate is somewhat out of balance. maybe in this sense there is a similarity here with the debate in the first half of the twentieth century. the second reason why i think it is a shame that we are not discussing the nature of borders in the current debate anymore is because of the neglect of a debate on good and bad borders, in other words, the ethics and justice of socio-spatial borders. again, this discussion would have to be updated to the present time and knowledge, but the question of morality itself is very timely. are borders justified and if so, to what extent is it morally just to protect ourselves and thereby deny the liberty of access to others? is it justified to make a moral difference between citizens and strangers? hence, in contrast to the earlier boundary studies of the first half century i would then not so much be interested in the goodness or badness of the line itself, the fit, for i believe then one engages oneself with the slippery path of an essentialistic justification of natural or military lines in space. the key sct construct of reciprocal determinism means that a person can be both an agent for change and a responder to change. thus, changes in the environment, the examples of role models, and reinforcements can be used to promote healthier behavior. this core construct is also central to social ecological models and is more important today than ever before. key decision makers within a community often function within limited time frames, especially when planning is tied to funding. because social norms and the physical environment of a community can take years to show meaningful change, ecological models that account for a long, often slow chain of events are necessary both to program design and to help decision makers understand the need for patience and continued support. this approach needs to be combined with ongoing, concerted efforts to achieve policy, systems, and environmental change. the existing empirical literature on the determinants of pollution suffers from several drawbacks. first, as stated above, a wide variety of variables has been suggested as explaining environmental contamination and there is little consensus in the literature on which of these variables really matter. second, most authors do not carefully examine the sensitivity of their empirical findings. thus, it is hard to tell whether the variables reported to be significant in a particular regression remain robust determinants of pollution once other potentially important explanatory variables are included. 1 third, the majority of publications only focuses on one particular hypothesis and limits the number of control variables; no systematic analysis of the different hypotheses mentioned in the literature is offered. hence, possible interdependencies with other variables and potential omitted variable biases are generally neglected. a final drawback of some studies is the limited data sample. often estimations are conducted for only one country over several years, or for only one year over a cross-section of countries. the eba results for the baseline model strongly support the ekc hypothesis in particular for water pollution. the negative coefficient of squared gdp per capita suggests that there indeed exists a non-linear relationship between per capita gdp and both pollution variables. 27 to validate an inverted u-shape relationship, we need to know whether or not the implied turning point is within sample. therefore, for both models, we calculate the implied ekc-turning point for each of the 1,159 regressions. in this way, we are able to give a much more detailed assessment of the ekc-turning point as commonly done in this line of literature. sixth, recent interest in more politically motivated explanations of environmental quality does not appear to be a very promising path. in fact, only our dictatorship dummy appears robustly related to co2 emissions; dictatorships are associated with less air pollution per capita. also, economic freedom seems to increase water pollution. however, we have to admit that, due to the reduced form characteristics of our set-up, this does not imply that there are no indirect channels through which these political variables influence pollution. it is important to point out some limitations of our approach. our focus was to provide an empirical assessment of previously proposed variables. it is well known that focusing on reduced form estimations has the advantage of easy-to-obtain, clear-cut results. however, this comes at the cost of potentially missing some indirect transmission channels, or not being able to model the underlying dynamics in a more sophisticated way. therefore, further research in this field should, on the one hand, reconsider and maybe blend some of the theoretical models that lead to the inclusion of some of the variables we identify to be robust. on the other hand, our results can be used as a starting point for setting up and estimating more structurally based models that are able to capture potential indirect effects and deal with the underlying dynamics. hence, even though we believe our work is a major step forward, there is still much more to be done in this field of research. socio-political questions. how is the disciplinary knowledge understood by stakeholders against the backdrop of human affairs? where and by whom has theory been developed? what are the history and sociology of theory evolution? are scholars in the discipline in general agreement about current theories or do profound differences of opinion exist? how is knowledge applied? is the knowledge expected to be relevant and useful in a practical sense? are there social, ethical, or political issues associated with the use of the disciplinary knowledge? issues discussed include the nature of theory in general, the need for generalization, the nature of causality and the core goals of explanation and prediction. it is impossible in a single paper to condense the extensive discussion of these topics over many hundreds of years into a meaningful representation of all that has been said. the approach adopted is to give an outline of the perspectives considered and to highlight those differences in thought that are intimately connected with different approaches to theory, as well as some important commonalities. some theories can focus on one goal, either explanation or prediction, at the expense of the other. that is, it is possible to achieve precise predictions without necessarily having understanding of the reasons why outcomes occur. using an everyday example, it is possible to predict from the appearance of clouds that it about to rain, without having an understanding of how precipitation occurs. moreover, it is possible to have models that are powerful in contributing to understanding of processes without providing, at the same time, precision in prediction. case studies of information systems implementation might give us a good understanding of how lack of involvement of users can lead to user dissatisfaction with a completed system. it would still be difficult to predict with any degree of accuracy the degree of user dissatisfaction arising from lack of involvement over a wide range of systems and settings. dubin refers to these situations as the precision paradox and the power paradox respectively. alternative methods would include forms of empirical classification, which could, for instance, involve the study of what forms of theory have occurred in is publications over a period of time and allow groupings to emerge from this study on the basis of the characteristics of the theories observed, possibly using a statistical technique such as cluster analysis. an analytic method is adopted here as it is believed to be more suitable when the defining attributes of theory can be extracted from a considerable literature. a detailed description of each type of theory follows, with examples as illustrations. there is some variation within each theory type, with different types of work depending on the focus of work undertaken and the scope of the theory. the examples given for each theory type are analyzed for evidence of all seven theory components identified earlier: means of representation, constructs, relationships, scope, causal explanations, falsifiable statements, and prescriptive statements. this analysis of existing work is not straightforward, as theories are rarely presented explicitly in terms of these seven components and some interpretive licence has been employed in presenting the examples. in addition, as noted earlier, the classification is dependent on the main or primary goals of the theory, rather than goals that are present only to a minor degree. for example, a theory that focused primarily on prediction yet had some explanations of a very rudimentary type would be classified as type iii. this type of theory explains primarily how and why some phenomena occur. these theories are formulated in such a way, however, that making testable predictions about the future is not of primary concern. explanations of how, when, where, and why events occurred may be presented, giving rise to process-type theory. this class could well be labeled theory for understanding, as these theories often have an emphasis on showing others how the world may be viewed in a certain way, with the aim of bringing about an altered understanding of how things are or why they are as they are. the limitations of this type of theory should be recognized. the existence of regularities or correlations between two variables does not necessarily imply a causal relationship. height and weight are related but one does not cause the other. the number of ice creams sold at beaches has a strong positive relationship with the frequency of shark attacks. we would not conclude that ice cream eating caused shark attacks. in both cases, a third variable, which is a determinant of both, is of more interest. this variable is temperature, with higher temperatures leading to more people at beaches and more people in the water where they can be attacked by sharks. the taxonomy was used to classify 50 research articles in two leading journals to demonstrate its applicability. issues of mis quarterly and information systems research from march 2003 to june 2004 were used as the source of the articles. all articles except issues and opinions, review articles, and research essays were included in the classification process. classification was performed by the author and a junior researcher independently, using the distinguishing attributes in table 2 as the primary basis for decisions to assign an article to one of types i to v. of the 50 articles studied, 45 were classified identically by each researcher separately in the initial round. five articles required discussion before a decision was made on classification. the appendix shows the results of this classification. the activity showed that the schema appears to be exhaustive: no papers were found that could not be classified under the schema. the decision rules to allocate theory to a category appear to be understandable, as the junior researcher was able to apply them independently and arrive at similar conclusions to the author. the question arises as to whether the type iii category is really necessary. only one article was found with theory that fell into category iii: prediction without causal explanation. it is believed that this category should be retained, even if instances in this class are few, both for analytic completeness and as it is a type of theory recognized by a number of authors. table 9 shows the relative frequency of each theory type. this essay has presented a number of ideas about theory in is and proposed a taxonomy for classifying the theories we develop. many of the ideas about theory presented are not new and have been taken from a considerable literature. nevertheless, the selection and combination of these ideas leads to a taxonomy that differs considerably in emphasis from what is commonly found in discussion of is research. an aim of the paper is to challenge and promote discussion of the nature of theory as a topic worthy of discussion in its own right. to this end, discussion follows under the headings of questions that encourage dialectic and some personal opinions and value judgements are included. it would be wrong to conclude, however, that all people who develop type iii theory are logical positivists or that all people who develop theory type ii are interpretivists, or that interpretivists build theory type ii only. what is commonly held to be natural-science type theory is type iii or type iv theory, where there is theory that can be tested. it appears that people who describe themselves as positivist researchers in is do so primarily when they engage in research that includes testable theory of these types. again, this is not to say that only people who call themselves positivists build types iii and iv theory. to reiterate, paradigmatic labels should not be attached to any of the theory types. there is no clear and direct connection between any theory type and any one paradigm. types iii and iv theory match common conceptions of scientific-type theory, according to the natural sciences model, as they provide theory that yields testable propositions. as such, they have found ready acceptance in is. the words scientific and science, however, are used in different ways in different quarters, so it is unwise to attach them definitively to any of the theory types or to use them to argue for the legitimacy or value of one type of theory at the expense of another. an advantage of labeling as theory varying forms of theory development is that it forces theorizers to think clearly about what type of knowledge they are aiming at, and the nature of the statements that can and should be made within that theory type. another outcome of thinking of theory in this way is that individual contributions to theory can be considered as complementary and integrated development of theory facilitated. each type of theory lacks something that another type has. stronger and fuller theory can result if we regard our efforts in building one type of theory as part of a larger whole and remain aware of potential connections between the subparts. the goal-related characteristics of theory are mentioned in many definitions of theory to varying degrees and thus appear to be a natural place to start in constructing a taxonomy. the only other structural characteristic identified as a possible candidate for distinguishing among theories is the level of generality. this characteristic is seen as of secondary importance to the goal, but could be used if a twodimensional classification schema was attempted. further subclassifications within the types could possibly be attempted. structural attributes have been used as the primary classifier for the taxonomy, rather than socio-technical or epistemological distinctions. a classification schema that relies on attributes of different types at the same level can be problematic. if classification is attempted on nonstructural grounds, then it should be done separately. a further contribution of the essay is the support for the legitimization of each of the five classes of theory. we can see that views on what constitute theory vary considerably and it is possible that our journal editors, reviewers, and authors are not aware of this divergence in views, or that their own view of theory may differ considerably from that of others. recognition that there are diverging views on the nature of process-type and variance-type theories and also that type iv theory can combine both process and variance aspects is particularly important. hopefully the arguments in this essay can be used as justification by researchers for the value of their own theory types. finally this essay, in addressing the structural nature of is theory, addresses an aspect of is research that has been given scant attention in comparison with discussion of our disciplinary domain, epistemological approaches, and sociopolitical issues. if it can provoke further attention to this aspect of our research endeavors, then it will fulfil a useful purpose. the lingering remnants of logical positivist thought that accord with the omission of causal reasoning from theoretical statements should be explicitly confronted and we should be very careful with our language in proposing theory, for example, in differentiating between generality and predictive power, in defining the scope of a theory, and in the wording of propositions. just as dialogue poses a challenge for future psycholinguistics, we think that even continued research into monologue and reading settings has its own challenges that require considerable attention. a prevalent perception of psycholinguistics by many academics outside of the discipline, but interested in language use, is that the materials used in most experiments are short, typically dull, de-contextualised, and generally unrelated to anything in real life. as psycholinguists, we would of course defend the subject against any negative construal of these facts, pointing out that adequate control over sentence structure and content is essential if we are to understand the basic mechanisms of comprehension. it is of central interest, for instance, to determine the syntactic and semantic interpretations given particular sentence structures. while this angle constitutes an interesting way of approaching at least some of the fundamental problems of meaningful, grounded interpretation, it also appears to provide a basis for linking reading to the kinds of phenomenological experiences described by zwaan. we think that a broader construal of the notion of interpretation to include bodily correlates is a likely area of expansion. however, demonstrations of the role of action and perceptual systems in interpretation is certainly in its infancy, and, like mainstream psycholinguistics, uses single sentences in most experiments. whether comprehending long sequences that describe complex actions requires close coupling to action and perceptual systems throughout the narrative still requires demonstration. restricting activation flow is likely to have additional consequences and potentially explain other observations. for example, selective activation may resolve the seeming contradiction that on the one hand, imageable words are produced more quickly and accurately, whereas they are also relatively more prone to word substitution errors. specifically, if imageable words have richer meanings or participate in richer semantic networks, then when accessed, they probably lead to the activation of a wider cohort of semantically related word meanings. when that widely activated cohort of word meanings does not extend to lexical activation, the most appropriate word representation should not suffer lexical-level competition, and so the greater activation of the intended word meaning should be free to be easily selected. thus, any model of language production must explain how speakers create utterances optimally given constraints on processing capacity, while at the same time respecting grammatical constraints, at least most of the time. at the same time, it must be acknowledged that even if this interpretation is correct, it still appears that haywood et al. have indeed observed the altruistic rather than egocentric use of optional functional elements. moreover, as highly skilled speakers are probably better able to avoid ambiguity than those who are less practiced, it is clear that some mechanisms must exist to allow speakers to monitor their speech and include optional elements in just those situations when they might be helpful to listeners. what we do not know is how this process, which is potentially quite resource-demanding, is coordinated with the other tasks performed by the production system. an important question for future research on the syntax-prosody interface in language production is whether these two sources are indeed distinct, or whether prosody and performance phenomena can be reduced to the same underlying causes. another critical issue is whether it is necessary to postulate a distinct level of prosodic constituency to account for phenomena related to rhythm and intonational phrasing, or whether syntactic structure is sufficient to explain prosodic patterns in spoken sentences. one limitation of work that has been conducted up to this point is that virtually all studies investigating prosody in production have used simple reading or repetition tasks to elicit utterances. the reason is that in order to test prosodic and syntactic hypotheses adequately, it is necessary to precisely control what the speaker says. in the hypothetical cases described here, the presence of the ldg must be interpreted as good evidence of phonological voicelessness. yet in each of case a vot in the shortlag region is shown to be a possibility, and that possibility has been interpreted at times as a voiced-for-voiceless error of the phonological kind. these hypothetical cases, however, are physiologically plausible and are clearly phonetic anomalies. for these reasons, when a voiceless stop target is produced with a short-lag vot it seems ill-advised to interpret the event as evidence of a phonological error, at least in the absence of additional evidence. the best form of such evidence would be direct viewing of the larynx during the production of voiceless stop targets, but of course this is not feasible in most clinical settings and indeed, is a specialty type of data even in research venues. fortunately, acoustic measures and observations can be added to vot measures to clarify the underlying physiology associated with an apparent voiced-for-voiceless substitution. in a relatively short period of time functional brain imaging has proven to be a uniquely effective means to study the role of cortical and subcortical brain structures in the production and understanding of language. by facilitating measurement of brain activity related to the processes underlying communication, it has allowed examination of the regional functional specialization of these phenomena with an accuracy and precision not previously possible with chronometric or electrophysiological techniques. with its ability to non-invasively localize neural activity, it has provided some remarkable opportunities to develop a deeper understanding of language processing in health and disease. based on a host of elegant experimental designs previously developed by experimental psychologists, the addition of neuroimaging techniques to language research has allowed independent evaluation of theories developed to explain the mechanisms responsible for this most uniquely human activity. most recently, its combination with various electrophysiological approaches has broadened the scope of inquiry to allow models of language processing that capture not only the spatial distribution of cognitive phenomena, but also their temporal character, providing novel glimpses of the flow of information during communication. the rapid pace of technological advance in functional neuroimaging methods shows no signs of abating, as the limits to our ability to resolve neural activity on ever finer spatial and temporal scales have been more constrained by engineering and financial considerations than physical ones. in summary, acoustic noise contamination is an unavoidable consequence of the operation of current mri devices. its effects are complex, potentially including stimulus masking, task difficulty modulation, interference with selective attention and reduction in auditory system dynamic range. insofar as the assumptions of subtractive logic do not pertain to the design of a specific experiment examining the processes responsible for language production or comprehension, the effects of scanner gradient noise may limit the accuracy with which neural activity is estimated in a functional neuroimaging experiment. these approaches are differentially effective and range widely in practicality and comfort. although all work reasonably well in reducing rigid-body motion of the head, none reduce the susceptibility artifacts arising from articulator motion or the parenchymal brain motion arising from cardiovascular and respiratory effects. as the overall accuracy of fmri is principally limited by inter-scan head motion artifacts present in statistical maps of task-related brain activity, and the existing post-processing algorithms for image realignment have not been completely successful when applied to time series of echoplanar images, it is obvious that better methods to prevent subject motion of all kinds are needed. motion of the articulators, particularly those that involve prominent jaw motion can result in image artifacts that are extremely difficult to remove during post-processing. the frequent observation that image artifacts related to motion of the articulatory apparatus may result in prominent false-positive signals led many investigators to conclude, perhaps prematurely, that fmri was not a suitable technique for studying the neural mechanisms of speech, as experimental designs requiring verbal responses are necessarily associated with jaw movements that can induce noticeable susceptibility artifacts in medial and inferior temporal cortical regions. as these areas are involved in language, it is obvious that jaw motion can generate potentially serious image artifacts in regions that would be expected to show task-related signal change. other artifacts resulting from the susceptibility changes that are induced by jaw movements include signal loss and image warping in nearby brain regions. these will vary with the position of the articulators responsible for the production of a given word. when using interleaved approaches, the proportion of time spent in performance of the target task is reduced, resulting in a situation in which the subject makes relatively fewer responses during the imaging session than during a continuous acquisition experiment utilizing the same overall run length. therefore, interleaved techniques may be less sensitive because of the smaller number of samples collected in the same acquisition period. however, the reduced power related to the smaller sample size may be balanced by the fact that, when using interleaved gradients, the subjects alternate more frequently between target and control tasks, with an attendant reduction in response habituation and therefore greater task-related signal modulation. because of their relative insensitivity to acoustic and motion artifacts, the interleaved techniques produce activity maps that are comparable to or better than those derived using continuous acquisition, possibly because the reduced inter-scan head motion would result in less temporal image misregistration and therefore higher resulting levels of statistical significance. in addition, interleaved techniques employ a longer tr that can result in increased sensitivity to small signal changes due to the improved contrastto-noise. in table 1 we present a guide to some of the recent fmri work using speech responses to study the neural mechanisms of cognitive processing. both continuous and interleaved techniques are employed using both block and event-related timing arrangements. the proscription against the use of speech responses in functional mri experiments is not warranted, even though jaw motion can be associated with dramatic artifacts in statistical maps. the use of event-related and interleaved data acquisition techniques can greatly reduce the effects of acoustic gradient noise on detection and estimation of spatial and temporal patterns of task-related activity. very soon, improvements in mr imaging equipment will include both better acoustic isolation of the subject and active noisecancellation capabilities, allowing ecologically valid communication studies in much quieter experimental environments. following some preliminaries concerning broad principles that govern perception, a framework for conceptualizing perception of speech will be presented. in part, this approach is modest because many of the central premises are derivative of what is known about domain-general processes of perception and learning. in addition, this approach is conservative by virtue of avoiding ad hoc claims concerning processing of speech in any unique way, while also avoiding reliance upon higher-level cognitive processes. the central claim is that perception of speech works the same way perception works for other modalities and for other environmental sources. speech perception follows a handful of general principles that are implemented in both sophisticated and not-so-sophisticated ways through the chain of processing from periphery through central nervous system. because multiple sound sources yield the same waveform, waveforms can never be more complex than characteristics of physical sources. researchers within the field of speech perception have long been familiar with appeals to perception via articulatory gestures as a simplifying construct, and there have been a series of efforts to extract gestures in order to facilitate machine speech recognition, albeit with very limited success. what physics demands, however, is that depiction of speech in terms of articulatory gestures can give only the illusion of simplicity. because scientists are much better at measuring details of sounds than they are at measuring details of articulator activity, articulatory gestures appear simpler only because they are defined more abstractly and are measured with less precision. because multiple resonator configurations can give rise to the same waveform, the acoustic waveform available to listeners always underestimates variability in articulation. the issue concerning orthogonality is interesting in two ways. first, while maximal efficiency is achieved if every vector shares no variance with any other vector, achieving this goal is unlikely in a neural system. a second point is more informative. here, perception is being construed as a cascade of processes, each working to extract redundancy from the outputs of earlier processes. to the extent that outputs of prior processes even approach orthogonality, this would seem to imply that seizing upon correlation again would become increasingly implausible. the solution to this seeming dead end is that, with every successive reduction of redundancy, information over which processing operates expands in space, frequency, time, and any other dimension of interest. thus, statistical relationships that hold relatively locally do not constrain correlations at the next coarser grain of processing. the same principles that explain categorical perception and development of perceptual organization during the first year of life extend to predicting how difficult, or easy, it is to learn new speech contrasts in a second language. for the case of the sounds of a single language, correlated attributes distinguish each consonant or vowel from others in a fashion that maximizes sensitivity to differences. the same construct, habitual co-occurrence of acoustic attributes, constrains and predicts how listeners perceive familiar and unfamiliar sounds from a second language. there are three basic patterns of interaction between perceptual organization for the native language and the mapping of sounds from a second language. a talker can expect a listener to grasp the rough dimension of any sincere and appropriate message, though only by saying it. for talker and listener, speech is a medium, a link in a commonplace causal chain by which pleasantries or philosophies are exchanged, cooperation is negotiated and compliance is compelled. but, does an essay about speech belong in a book about language? to a newcomer, it is self-evident that conversational partners know what each other says simply by hearing the sounds of spoken words. from this perspective, the fundamentals of speech perception surely lie in psychoacoustics, an essential reduction of speech perception to sensory resolution and auditory categorization. even so, the newcomer might already notice the difference in auditory quality in the speech of children and adults, or in face to face and in telephone speech, and suspect that the perception of spoken messages entails more than acute hearing. acoustic changes in the spectrum are nonuniform across the formants. specifically, the independent control of the articulators that produces formant frequency variation causes uncorrelated differences across the formants in the extent, rise and fall and temporal relation of frequency and amplitude change. equal change in the first, second, third, nasal and fricative formants is uncharacteristic of vocal sound production, and aggregation of the sensory correlates of speech in perceptual organization occurs without evident reliance on similarity of change across the resonances. in some acoustic transforms of speech spectra, the frequency variation of the resonances is obscured without loss of perceptual coherence. nonetheless, it interfered with organization in proportion to its frequency variation, the most when it varied with the pattern of a second formant; less when it varied in frequency at the pace and pattern of a second formant but over a reduced frequency range; and not at all when it was squashed to a constant frequency. in other words, the propensity of the lure to interfere with perceptual organization depended on the speechlike properties of its frequency variation alone, because this single time-varying tone did not evoke phonetic impressions that competed with those of the sentence. in this circumstance, multimodal perception should be poor in as much as the cumulative effect of poor visual and no auditory perception remains poor. instead, the combination was fine, arguably reflecting the effectiveness of auditory and visual streams in combination when separately neither stream was adequate. this finding among many others offers evidence of a common dimensionality for viewed and heard speech preliminary to analysis. long ago, research on the perceptual analysis of speech adopted a focus on the ultimate constituents of language. that is, the linguistic properties that speech expresses are componential, and the components are hierarchically nested. utterances in the form of sentences are composed of clauses, within which phrases are nested; phrases comprise words, words are composed of syllables and each syllable can be a series of phoneme segments. phonemes are grouped by distinctive features, that is, by virtue of the coincidence of disjunctive attributes that, together, constitute a system of contrasts across the segmental inventory of a language. taxonomies of phonemes and the features on which the classes are sorted can become controversial from time to time, depending on the rise or fall in value of one or another kind of evidence. even with such disputes, there has been good agreement that the perception of speech entails the perceptual resolution of elementary linguistic attributes available in a brief spoken sample; larger structures of linguistic form are produced cognitively by aggregating the elementary constituents provided by speech perception. we defer a discussion right now of the consequences of the phonetic expression of phonemic contrasts, but not for long. setting a perceptual focus that is linguistic, segmental and contrastive defines the products of perception, although consensus about the effects has not tempered the disagreements about the causes of perception. this dispute among perspectives concerns the kind of perceptual analysis yielding the linguistic objects. proponents have divided on its essential nature. either the perception of speech depends on auditory sensitivity and categorization, or on articulation, or on linguistic function. each of the proposals is old, and the stalemate is apparently perpetual. we will offer a recommendation, but first we expose some of the technical details. when methods for direct measurement of sound became available to supplement impressionistic descriptions, it had a paradoxical effect on the restlessness with old fashioned articulatory description. as the basic properties of speech acoustics were described technically, a problem emerged for proponents of acoustic description; indeed, the conceptualization of articulation was challenged as well. research on production and perception alike failed to find counterparts to the theoretical description of phonemes in articulatory, acoustic or auditory components. each perspective in its own way had presupposed that speech was a semaphore, with every phoneme a kind of vocal act or pose, or every segment a kind of acoustic display. instead, whether construed as acts of articulation, their physical acoustic products or their psychoacoustic effects, an apparent lack of invariance was evident in the correspondence of the linguistically contrastive phoneme segments and their expressive manifestations. in each domain, the relation of a phoneme to its articulatory and acoustic correlates proved to be one-to-many. this approach explained well the inexhaustible variety of articulatory and acoustic correlates of each phoneme, or, rather, the lack of a consistent physical manifestation of a phoneme, because whichever segments preceded and followed it shaped its articulation by contributing to the encoding; and, no phoneme is ever expressed in isolation of coarticulatory influence. liberman et al. explain that such recoding achieves high rates of segmental transmission with sluggish anatomy. the cost is to obscure the relation between an intended or perceived phoneme and its articulatory and acoustic form. accordingly, speech gives phonetically encoded expression to an intended if abstract phoneme series. two critical axioms are assumed in the perceptual account given by articulatory phonology and direct realism, and if they are not exactly false, they are less true than the account demands. the first is an asserted isomorphism between the components used in language to create contrast and the components of spoken acts; they are designated as a single set of gestures. the second is a state of parity such that talker and listener match; the expressed forms and the perceived forms are claimed to be the same. of course, these axioms are related. people who speak the same language use the same canonical contrasts. if they express them differently, or if a talker nonaccidentally expresses the same form in gestural variants on different occasions, then the relation between canonical and expressed forms can be regulated, adjusted or reshaped; phonemic and phonetic form are not identical in this circumstance. instead, some of the degrees of freedom in articulation would be reserved for expression beyond those that are committed to the canonical form of the word. can a phonology indicate the aspects of the phonetic realization that stem from canonical lexical form and those that are controlled by consistent non-lexical aspects of expression? surely, dialect and idiolect are components of language, and the phonetic means of marking contrasts between communities and among talkers within them shares the phonetic grain of production with the expression of lexical contrasts. perhaps an ultimate model would include the influence of long-standing or momentary expressive aims on the articulatory parameters in the task dynamic organization of production, explaining the regular expressive variants of canonical lexical form that supersede straightforward coarticulatory and rate effects. but, the consistent lapses in isomorphism between canonical and expressed form deprives the perceptual account of its central claim: the transparency of lexical contrast sensed via public aspects of speech. in the absence of isomorphism, the perceiver is challenged to resolve the canonical gestures from a speech stream that marks dialect, idiolect, affect and attitude in phonetic form as well. the axiom of parity denotes sameness in language forms shared by a talker in composing an expression and by a listener in perceiving it. here, the intended sense of parity applies only to the gestural components of language, and this is completely apt. after all, lexical parity is commonly breached: conversations are fine with people who say lightning bug when we say firefly, sack for bag, trash for garbage, that is, under conditions in which the communicative function matches while the lexical form does not. from its humble beginnings in the 1960s, there has been an effort to establish the admissibility of voiceprint analysis into court proceedings, with some success. at best, an earwitness or voiceprint examiner can choose the member of a voice line-up who sounds most similar to the original talker, or come to no decision. expert voiceprint analysts often opt for no decision. however, for the victim of a crime providing earwitness testimony, the motivation to identify a perpetrator might override the uncertainty inherent in such a task, leading to a mistaken identification. moreover, any decision based on relative similarity is extremely sensitive to the set of alternatives. to construct a fair test, a talker identification line-up should include a single target suspect paired against a set of talkers known to be innocent who are similar to the target in sex, gender, dialect, height, age, weight, socio-economic status and level of education. in this discussion of the theoretical and empirical study of the perception of speech, we have emphasized the principles motivating classic and recent explanations. instead of a comprehensive review of research paradigms within this lively domain, we have adopted a functional focus on speech as an expression of language. as a consequence of this commitment, speech perception is cast as the means by which spoken expressions are resolved as coherent audible and visible events, as strings of familiar linguistic forms, as the product of an individual talker, and as a model for recurrent self-expression. ostensibly, these related aspects of speech perception are the ordinary experience of talkers and listeners, and do not depend for their justification on specific research methods or puzzles. new investigations will determine whether the perspective articulated here proves to be useful in the search for new evidence to refine the descriptive and explanatory inquiry into the perception of speech. on the interactive view, if top-down information can usefully constrain interpretation of bottom-up information, it should be used, and veridical perception can be maintained by properly weighting bottom-up and top-down information. falsifying this position is more difficult. alternative explanations for lexical effects must be proposed, and evidence must show that when those explanations make predictions that are different from lexical feedback predictions, the lexical feedback predictions are incorrect. over the past two decades, the debate appeared to be settled at least two or three times, with alternative apparent falsifications of autonomous and interactive positions. the most recent version of the model, the distributed cohort model, departs from this stance by assuming no division between initial contact and selection. semantic features are an integral part of lexical representations, and thus semantic and phonological knowledge are simultaneously activated by bottom-up input. this last instantiation, by renouncing the theoretical processing division between form and meaning, is compatible with findings of a continuous integration of different sources of evidence in order to ultimately derive an interpretation of the spoken input. the organization of the chapter is as follows: first, we will briefly outline why word recognition research has been central to a number of quite distinct developments in cognitive psychology, psycholinguistics, and cognitive neuroscience. second, we will review the evidence regarding letter recognition, sublexical organization, and lexical-level influences on word recognition. interspersed within each of these sections is a discussion of some of the current theoretical developments and controversies. third, we will review the literature on context and priming effects in word recognition; again, highlighting major theoretical developments and controversies. fourth, we will discuss some limitations regarding inferences that are possible based on the available data, and highlight some recent developments that have provided additional leverage on such issues. we shall now review some of the variables that have been pursued in word recognition research. first, we shall attempt to break the word down into smaller, more tractable bits. second, we will discuss work that addresses how orthography maps onto phonology in english. third, we will discuss the influence of variables that can be quantified at the whole word level, e. g. , frequency, familiarity, age of acquisition, orthographic neighborhood size, along with a set of additional semantic variables. fourth, we will provide an overview of the influence of single word context on isolated word recognition, via a review of the priming literature. sprinkled within each of these sections will be discussion of the major theoretical models and issues. second, as we shall see below, there is a consistent word level frequency effect in both response latency tasks and perceptual identification tasks, and hence, there at least appears to be a difference between frequency effects at different levels within the processing system, i. e. , letters vs. words. third, this is our first exposure of a general theme that runs across the word recognition literature, i. e. , different tasks or analyses yield different patterns of data, and so it is incumbent upon the researcher to build a task of not only the targeted dimensions in word processing, but also the tasks that are used to tap these dimensions. finally, it is important to note that the plaut et al. model was a recurrent network that eventually settled into a steady state and hence response latencies could be evaluated in the model. that is, activation of phonological units changes over time as information in the system accumulates and is shared among network units. this property contrasts with the error measure that was used to evaluate the original seidenberg and mcclelland model. in the plaut et al. model, when a word is recognized, its corresponding grapheme units become activated, and, in turn, this activation is propagated throughout the network. in the word anvil the third letter is part of the second syllable, whereas, in the case of vodka the third letter is part of the first syllable. now, if the syllable produces a perceptual grouping, then one might expect errors in reporting the colors such that the d in vodka might be more likely to be reported in the same color of the o, compared to the k, whereas, the v in anvil might be more likely to be reported in the color of the i, compared to the n. this is precisely the pattern obtained in the prinzmetal et al. study. although estimates vary, the average adult reader is likely to have about 50,000 words in their lexicon. because these words are based on a limited number of 26 letters, there must be considerable overlap in spelling patterns across different words. one of the major tasks of an acceptable model of word recognition is to describe how the system selects the correct lexical representation among neighborhoods of highly related orthographic representations. of course, it is possible that the number of similar spelling patterns may not influence lexical processing and that only a single representation must pass threshold for recognition to occur. however, as already mentioned, it appears that words are not recognized in isolation from other orthographically related representations. the possibility that meaning-level representations play a role in isolated word recognition has relatively far reaching implications for current models of word recognition. most of the available models emphasize the stages that subjects use in accessing the mental lexicon, with relatively little direct influence of meaning-level variables. however, when reminded that the role orthographic patterns play in reading is to convey meaning and not simply to convey lexicality then one might easily envisage an architecture that incorporates a relatively early influence of meaning. at this level, it should be no surprise that meaning-level representations may contribute to relatively early perceptual analyses and aid in constraining the percept, i. e. , recognition of the word. although recent connectionist and dual-route models of word processing acknowledge such effects, the devil is in the details of implementing such meaning-level influences. each of these models provides intriguing alternative perspectives on semantic priming effects. at this point in theory development, it appears that no single model of priming readily accounts for the richness and diversity of this literature, and it would appear that multiple mechanisms will need to be postulated to account for the breadth of semantic priming effects. the models reviewed earlier appear to have a relatively passive architecture wherein different systems accumulate information across time. however, in some instances, it may be advantageous for the reader to modulate the contribution of a given pathway depending upon the task demands or particular reading context. for example, one might expect different emphases on distinct systems when proofreading, comprehending, or checking for grammaticality. virtually, every theory of word recognition posits multiple ways of accessing or computing the phonological code from print. in the drc model, one can compute a phonological code via the lexical route, which maps the whole word onto a lexical representation to access phonology, or via the sublexical route, which computes the phonology via the spelling-to-sound correspondences in the language; in pdp models, the phonology can be computed by differential emphasis on the direct orthographic to phonological connections or the indirect connections via semantics. the question naturally arises whether there is any control of which processing pathway influences performance in a given task. although there is accumulating evidence for some level of pathway control, further work is clearly necessary in this area. indeed, the extent to which attentional systems modulate the information in distinct pathways has important implications for future modeling endeavors, and quite naturally would accommodate taskspecific influences that have been emphasized in the present chapter. moreover, time criterion perspectives are important in understanding how the word recognition system adjusts to the local constraints of an experiment and may have important implications for other cognitive paradigms that rely on response latency measures. at this level, time criterion effects may be viewed as an example of attentional control. in sum, we are hopeful that the reader agrees that at some level the word is to cognitive psychologists and psycholinguist as the cell is to biologists. both entail many substructures and interact with many higher-level systems. the present overview of the word recognition literature may seem rather imposing, and sometimes it would appear that little progress is being made. however, this clearly is not the case; considerable progress has been made, especially within the last decade. of course, the seductive simplicity of understanding lexical-level analyses surely is more apparent than real. as is often the case in a discipline, the more we know about a system, the more we develop procedures for generating and constraining our questions in the future. given the new analytic methods that have come on line recently this will indeed be a very exciting next decade of research. in a second experiment words from the two word classes were presented in a primed naming task. neither the naming task, nor the initial processing time measures revealed evidence of lexical processing differences between function and content words when word length, frequency, and sentence position were controlled. however, there were interactions between word frequency and word class in later processing measures and these were taken to reflect the unique roles these two types of words play in constructing meaning from text. casting questions of lexical ambiguity resolution as tests of modularity, the concept of exhaustive access was tied to the notion of an access process that was impervious to contextual influences, while the selective access accounts were decidedly context dependent. as this brief review has illustrated, there is now a large body of evidence demonstrating that readers access multiple meanings, and that access is influenced by the relative strength of the respective meanings of the word and the context in which it occurs. the picture that has emerged calls for hybrid models that account for rapid activation of multiple meanings and the early influence of sentence context. while the re-ordered access model is representative of contemporary hybrid models, the various models differ in the extent to which they characterize exhaustive access as mandatory or highly likely and they differ in their view of the fate of the meaning that is not selected for integration into the discourse representation. finally, although they all acknowledge that context may influence the order in which meanings become available, they say remarkably little about the properties of the sentence context that give rise to these effects. we will now deal with each of these issues in turn. processing time in the post-target region showed the opposite pattern of results. there was a cost in initial processing time in the post-target region when the meaning switched and no benefit was observed in that region when the meaning was consistent with the first encounter. in another experiment, the meaning of the ambiguous word always switched from first to second encounter. but now, the intervening context either maintained the original topic of the passage or the topic shifted. a topic shift was operationalized as a change in the focal actor and a change in location. if the processing cost observed in the post-target region of the previous experiment is due to difficulty integrating the selected meaning into a discourse representation that includes the other meaning of that word, then that cost should diminish with a shift in discourse topic, as the previous concept is no longer in a highly active state in the discourse representation. the same logic applies to the initial processing time on the target word. quillian emphasized several structural aspects of this view of semantic memory. first, each attribute and value of each binding was itself an entry, with its own set of proximate bindings. second, there was no strict hierarchy in a semantic memory as a whole. each entry was the root of its own hierarchy, but simultaneously was subsumed under an unlimited number of other hierarchies branching from other entries. third, the chains of bindings leading away from a given root entry could refer back recursively to the root entry itself; that is, the entry canary could appear as an attribute or value of an indirect binding under the root entry canary. for example, starting with the verb to fly, we might find the following loop: fly, wing, feather, bird, fly. similar longer or shorter recursive loops are quite common. hence syntactic and semantic processing begin without any appreciable delay. this might suggest that the processor has an architecture in which different sources of information are integrated immediately. however, this assumption has proved extremely controversial, as we shall now see. we therefore first review theories and data relating to initial processing. following this, we turn to questions of reanalysis and processing complexity, and then address a range of newer topics in parsing research that provide important links between the field and other areas of psycholinguistics and cognition more generally. they argued that in the ovs order, people anticipate that the postverbal noun is a new discourse entity, and that processing difficulty for ovs sentences in a supporting context occurs because the anticipation incurs a processing cost. in contrast, they do not anticipate any discourse properties of the postverbal noun in the svo order, because it may be either new or given. they showed evidence for their hypothesis in a visual-world eye-movement experiment, which showed that before they heard the postverbal noun, participants looked more often at a new referent when they heard an ovs sentence than when they heard an svo sentence. this suggests that the difficulty in the ovs sentences when presented in an appropriate context may have been due to the anticipation of a new discourse entity. in addition, there is a clear evidence that people use both linguistic and visual information about referential context during sentence processing. furthermore, for some ambiguities, linguistic and visual context appear to be able to override syntactic preferences that exist in the absence of a context. these effects emerge at the earliest stages of processing that can be measured with current methodologies. however, for other ambiguities, usually those where the preference in the absence of the context is stronger, context does not completely eliminate preferences that exist for ambiguities out of context. this is consistent with constraint-based models, which assume that context has an immediate effect on sentence processing, but that other sources of information may sometimes be strong enough to override these effects. so far, we have focused on the traditional question of the initial stages of parsing, by focusing on the question of how people make initial decisions. such research has tended to use garden-path sentence in which the initially favored analysis turns out to be incorrect, and assumes that people then at least try to reanalyze. for a long time, there was surprisingly little research into how reanalysis takes place. however, there are a number of strands of research into reanalysis, and this section attempts to bring them together. most research on reanalysis has simply assumed that people know what to do when they realize they have misanalyzed: they must attempt to construct the correct analysis. but sometimes it is not this straightforward, because the processor may still be faced with more than one alternative. what does the processor do then? does it simply use whatever strategies it would have used if it had been faced with the same ambiguity during initial processing? although this might seem most straightforward, proponents of modular accounts often argue that syntax-based principles are used because such information becomes available before other sources of information. alternatively, reanalysis might be able to draw on all relevant information, and would therefore operate according to different principles from initial analysis. additionally, it might pay attention to the relative difficulty of converting from the initial analysis to each new analysis. as this review shows, the majority of sentence processing research has continued to address relatively traditional topics, such as the initial factors affecting processing, reanalysis, and structural complexity. it now seems reasonable to conclude that completely modular accounts of initial processing such as traditional garden-path theory are not correct, and that the processor draws on a range of sources of information during initial processing. however, there are good reasons to believe that structural information does play a role during sentence processing and cannot be reduced to a set of weakly interacting constraints. whereas research has shown that discourse context, plausibility, and frequency play important roles during sentence processing, they often do not entirely override basic preferences for particular types of structure. the goal of this chapter is to review selected literature on prosodic processing in adult speakers and listeners, with a focus on prosodic phrasing and sentence-level prominence. the structure of the chapter is as follows: first, we give a brief history of some early attempts to understand the impact of prosodic structure on comprehension, highlighting some of the basic issues that continue to motivate research in the area and presenting some of the methodological challenges inherent in the study of prosodic effects. next, we review briefly phonetic measures and phonological annotation methods commonly used to describe the prosody of production data and spoken experimental materials. we discuss strategies for the construction of experimental materials and argue that the precise specification of prosodic form is critical to the understanding and replication of prosodic effects in processing. we then present current research findings on prosodic phrasing and its relationship to syntactic processing, and prosodic prominence as it affects information structure, and interacts with phrasing. as noted above, the correspondence between prosodic structure and other levels of linguistic representation such as syntactic and discourse structure is a many-to-many mapping. ambiguities contained in the speech signal that conveys prosodic structure can substantially increase the complexity of this correspondence. on the one hand, such complexity has disadvantages for psycholinguistic experimentation: grammatical stimuli can take many forms, leading to ambiguous stimuli and potentially to conflicting results across studies. on the other hand, the complex correspondence between prosody and other structures can also work to the advantage of the experimenter: ambiguity has provided a window of opportunity for researchers in other areas of psycholinguistics for generations, allowing them to specify the mechanisms that underlie multiple levels of language processing. if we carefully specify the phonology and phonetics of our experimental materials, we can make use of the ambiguities to begin to develop a principled account of when and where particular prosodic entities influence the comprehension process. evidence from language comprehension studies represents only half of the language processing picture. although it is important to demonstrate that listeners use prosodic structure to process spoken language, it is just as important to demonstrate that speakers actually produce in everyday speech the types of prosodic structures that are manipulated in laboratory investigations. although an extensive literature examines the production of prosodic form, for the purposes of this chapter we limit ourselves to the discussion of production techniques used to create stimuli for studies of spoken language comprehension. as reviewed above, studies of the role of prosodic phrasing on syntactic interpretation during language comprehension investigate the influence of just one component of prosodic structure. when studies involve lab speech, experimenters frequently control the type and location of accentual information in order to limit their investigation to the role of prosodic phrasing. however, many recent studies in english have manipulated pitch accent information by itself, or simultaneously manipulated pitch accent and phrasing information. two broad conclusions are suggested from the work on accent and phrasing discussed in this section. because new questions did not mention math in the question, the mention of math in the answer represented new information. because given questions did mention math, the repeated mention of math in the answer represented given information. the two question types were crossed with three accentual patterns in the answers: v np, np, and v. in the first two patterns, the word math was accented. in the v np pattern, the preceding verb was accented as well. in the v pattern, only the verb was accented. more generally, processing accounts have a long way to go in terms of explaining how the multiple components in prosodic representation work together to influence various other levels during sentence comprehension. there are also interesting questions regarding to what extent segmental, lexical, syntactic, semantic, and discourse factors may influence the perception of prosody, and how that might come about. although we have focused on studies that investigate english, successful processing accounts will be those that explain similarities and differences in processing across languages that have similar and different prosodic systems. we believe that a complete understanding of language comprehension requires a detailed understanding of the set of composition operations that comprehenders have at their disposal, and how these operations interface with the rest of the language processing system. this will require psycholinguistic and neurolinguistic research to isolate the different operations involved in semantic composition, to identify which are costly for the language processor to compute, and why some might be more costly than others. however, a necessary first step is to clearly identify candidate operations. in sum, when the relationship between two syntactic elements is one of selection, such that one element denotes a function that selects another element as an argument, the mode of semantic composition is functional application. a large body of psycholinguistic research, briefly reviewed below, has investigated the role of argument structures in parsing and interpretation. within the framework proposed here, this research can be viewed as investigating the real-time deployment of functional application. next, we turn to situations where two elements combine in the absence of a selectional relation. although the interpretive rules sketched in section 2 have significant empirical coverage, many semantic phenomena seem to call for more powerful interpretive mechanisms. we provide an overview of constructions that challenge the simple view described so far. first, we discuss cases of type mismatch, where elements can combine even though they do not constitute an appropriate structural environment for either functional application or predicate modification. second, we review cases where a part of the meaning of a sentence is not overtly expressed by any of its syntactic constituents, and the unexpressed meaning cannot be generated by any basic compositional operation. psycholinguistic research on compositionality has mainly investigated the processing of two types of expressions: complement coercion and aspectual coercion. both complement coercion and aspectual coercion involve a semantic mismatch and have been argued to challenge strong compositionality. work on these constructions has focused either on their representation or on their processing with little synthesis. in what follows, we consider both traditional linguistic evidence and psycholinguistic and neurolinguistic data in evaluating to what extent these cases indeed require nonsyntactic interpretive mechanisms. if coercion requires an extra-syntactic process that is not part of the default repertoire of interpretive rules, coerced sentences should be more costly to process than noncoerced controls. we next turn to processing measures of whether coerced sentences involve on-line construction of an event predicate from an entity-denoting np. further, if the resolution of the type mismatch in coercion involves composition of an event structure rather than just retrieval of a suitable activity, it should be possible to obtain a processing delay that is not simply due to activity retrieval. we have discussed several cases of nontransparent composition. experimental investigation of these phenomena has only recently begun, and clearly many questions remain. nonetheless, as we have emphasized, we believe that the study of the on-line processes of semantic composition should be guided by the rich and detailed hypothesis space provided by theoretical semantics. to that end, we briefly revisit each of the phenomena in section 3 to evaluate them on representational grounds. to what extent can we predict similar or different processing operations based on what we know and can reason about their representation? this model was designed to simulate predictions of a two-stage model, in which the mv interpretation is adopted in the first stage and use of non-syntactic information is delayed until the second stage. mcrae et al. found that the more interactive model was a better fit to the data than the one in which non-syntactic constraints were delayed. they argued that the addition of modeling provides a much stronger test of alternative accounts than empirical work alone, in that the modeling effort forces commitments to particular claims about constraint interaction and its timecourse. thus, whereas low-level variables are largely determining where to fixate next, if the word to the right of fixation is identified on the current fixation, such identification will lead to a change in decision about which word to target next. whereas eye-movement data are often considered to be the gold standard in studies of sentence parsing, eye-movement data have had much less impact on studies dealing with discourse processes and inferences. in many respects this is quite surprising because it would seem important to determine exactly when readers make inferences as they read, and certainly eye-movement data hold the promise of revealing this type of temporal effect. in this section, we will review studies that have used eye movements in this manner. our suspicion is that proportionally more eye-movement studies dealing with discourse processes and inferences will appear over the next few years. as a result, our belief is that for a model of reading to be of some value at this point in time, it needs to be able to explain a significant part of the reading process, yet be simple enough so that it is a useful heuristic tool for understanding which phenomena it can explain and which it can not explain. at present, there are a number of programs of research that are developing quantitative models of eye movements in reading. though they differ wildly in many respects, they all share certain features, as none are attempting any serious modeling of how text is parsed or how discourse structures are being constructed. some focus on lexical processes primarily influencing eye movements, whereas others attempt to explain eye movements in reading largely by lower-level, perceptual and motor processing or via ideal observer procedures. whether this is in fact how reading goes on is, of course, an open question. however, we think it is a reasonable starting point for thinking about the reading process. in addition, modeling of the first stage then no longer seems like an insurmountable task; moreover, it allows one to define a well-defined set of eye-movement data to be modeled: all eye movements in reading other than regressions back to prior words. let us see how this might be done. finally, we hope it is obvious that eye movements continue to be an excellent way to study the moment-to-moment processes inherent in the reading process. as we have seen in our discussion of higher-order factors, there are many difficulties in interpreting the eye-movement record when the manipulations involve syntax or higher-order semantic processing. however, it terms of inferring moment-to-moment mental processing during reading, it is not clear that there are any other measures that provide the temporal precision that eye movements provide. a major reason for the stability of n400 latencies in the visual modality may be the constancy in the timing of perceptual processes across psycholinguistically distinct categories of stimuli; perceptual information about the identity of a word is likely to reach the cortical areas involved in meaning construction at much the same time regardless of contextual manipulations. moreover, the visual information in a single word is present all at once, and likely analyzed as a single visual pattern. the physical nature of the speech signal is quite different in having an extended temporal duration, so that information about the identity of a word accrues over time. this property of speech makes it more amenable to examinations of the temporal relationships between perceptual and semantic processes. at a minimum, however, there do appear to be interactions of syntax with semantics in online processing, both in double violation studies and in manipulations of discourse context to influence these reported interactions appear to involve morphosyntactic parsing. moreover, the n400, p600 and lan equally, erp components that do not emerge any earlier in the erp record than 200 ms post-stimulus onset. whether or not such interactions reliably involve or exclude the elan is a question that will have to await further research for a definitive answer. for example, in fairy tales, we might expect characters to possess magical powers or animals to speak, but not expect to read about spaceships or other futuristic technologies. conversely, in science fiction stories, we might expect such futuristic technologies but perhaps no talking animals or wizardly wands. riddles derive most of their effects from the fact that the listener does not know beforehand which violations to expect, and what to update in memory. thus, the acquisition and application of background knowledge is an important issue in discourse comprehension. the procedure is actually quite simple. first you arrange items into different groups. of course, one pile may be sufficient depending on how much there is to do. if you have to go somewhere else due to a lack of facilities that is the next step; otherwise you are pretty well set. it is important not to overdo things. that is, it is better to do a few things at once than too many. in the short run it may not seem important but complications can easily arise. a mistake can be expensive as well. at first, the whole procedure will seem complicated. soon, however, it will become just another facet of life. it is difficult to foresee any end to the necessity for this task in the immediate future, but then, one never can tell. after the procedure is completed one arranges the materials into different groups again. then they can be put in their appropriate places. eventually, they will be used once more and the whole cycle will have to be repeated. however, that is part of life. a key advantage of the fmri methodology is that a significantly smaller temporal window can be used in the measurement of brain activity than had been possible with pet. in some cases, the cognitive processing that we would like to measure is very short in duration and, particularly with language processing, it occurs on the order of tens of milliseconds. there is obvious difficulty when trying to measure a rapid cognitive process with a very slow measurement such as pet. in fact, pet does not really allow a consideration of the moment by moment changes in activation. it results in a single average image from a large temporal window. the fmri can be used to acquire an image in many consecutive temporal windows. the fmri studies allow the collection of button pressing data and response times, but many other data collection methods are problematic. vocalization responses such as naming times and talk-aloud protocols are more difficult to acquire. although, noise-canceling technologies have facilitated the extraction of voice responses in the noisy scanning environment, the head motion induced by jaw movements can render data unusable. the normal scanning procedure also makes it difficult to collect discourse recall data from a scanning session. as with voice responses, these problems can be overcome with some effort, but the problems have not been systematically solved so far. in summary, brain imaging methodology imposes some constraints on discourse processing experimental design. passages must be designed carefully to maximize the chance of finding how a complex cortical network functions in discourse comprehension. specific process must be temporally localized to a specific point in the text. moreover, the same process must occur across the majority of passages for the majority of subjects. for example, if the generation of a bridging inference is being examined, the inference must be generated at a similar point within the text across stimuli and across readers to be measured. the limitation on number of passages and subjects constrains the ability to average over a large set of passages. even with the constraints on experimental design, imaging still has the benefit of examining how the network as a whole functions. this is true even in those cases in which a process, such as inferencing, might not occur at a specific temporal point. thus, it is possible to see the cognitive workload required for generating an inference with imaging even if it cannot be determined behaviorally whether or when an inference was drawn. the fmri can thus be sensitive to processes that have only small effects on behavioral measures, while at the same time capturing the qualitative variation and parallel nature of the processes underlying discourse comprehension to which response times are insensitive. the fmri results revealed that the left hemisphere, as a whole, exhibited no effect of whether the paragraph was presented along with the title, while the right hemisphere revealed significantly greater involvement during the presentation of the untitled paragraphs. more specifically, the left middle and superior temporal sulci became more active during the processing of the titled paragraphs, and conversely, the right middle and superior temporal sulci became more active during the processing of the untitled paragraphs. these results support the idea that the right hemisphere is concerned with the mapping of information into a text representation, as discussed below. in addition, these results suggest that the processing roles of the two hemispheres are, in fact, distinguishable. it seems as though the identification of the main idea and the building of the text representation is separable from the mapping of that information onto the discourse structure with both hemispheres working in an interactive manner in order to construct a coherent representation of the text. furthermore, the type of the information within the text plays a role in which areas are responsible for building and maintaining a representation of the text. propositional level information may be processed by left frontal and left temporal areas as long as resources are available. situational model information results in an engagement of the medial frontal cortex. specific areas within the cortex may be dependent upon the nature of the input, for example, emotional information related to protagonist interpreter should activate more dorsal frontal regions. often, the links between events in a story are not explicitly expressed and the reader must connect them by generating linking inferences and integrating them with the presented information. almost every text requires a reader to draw on a rich store of shared knowledge about the world. there is a strong relation between inference generation and text integration. inference generation is often necessary in building accurate text representations and conversely, an accurate text representation is often necessary for inference generation. throughout this chapter we have described research in this area that is consistent with various discourse processing theories. in addition, the research contained in this chapter has been fundamental in developing new concepts such as the coarse coding theory of right hemisphere process, the dynamic recruitment of cortical networks in response to text constraints, the spillover of processing to other differential specialized networks in response to capacity utilization, and the utilization of a theory of mind network in discourse comprehension. what remains is to examine how the recent cortically based perspectives on discourse processing fit into the various discourse processing theories. the signal that emanates from active components in memory is not triggered by coherence breaks, nor is it guided by relevance; it is continuous, autonomous, and unrestricted. any related information that resonates in response to this signal has the potential to be activated, independent of its relevance. outdated information is no different than any other information; if the reader encounters a target sentence that is related to the outdated information, the target sentence can serve to reactivate that information, even if reactivation ultimately disrupts comprehension. this leaves us with the rather difficult task of proposing that if a text has high emotional content, invites an elaborative inference, and has a clear topic, we should see a specific type of network active. developing a set of networks that process discourse would be as many and as varied as the texts themselves. the better approach would be to build upon already existing theories of discourse and show how evidence from brain regions support components of the various theories. discourse processing is a complex high-level cognitive task in that many facets of cognition are involved. the ability of neuroimaging research to examine a large scale cortical network of differentially specialized brain regions while manipulating the loading of the various facets of cognition makes the methodology ideally suited to advancing our understanding of discourse comprehension. the diverse nature of the research reviewed in this chapter shows that we are only beginning to bring to bear the strengths of neuroimaging on our understanding of comprehension. we review each characteristic in a separate section; however, it is important to note that they are not independent. they are correlated with each other as strongly as they are correlated with measures of comprehension performance. the theories of comprehension skill that we review explain these correlations by means of different causal mechanisms. we include figures in each section to illustrate how these theories partition variance among the five reader characteristics in different ways. these figures do not represent all conceivable relations among the characteristics; they represent only those that are emphasized according to different explanations of individual differences in comprehension ability. figure 1 depicts the five reader characteristics that are discussed in this chapter. verbal efficiency theory emphasizes three of these: word-level ability, wm capacity, and print exposure. figure 1 shows a direct effect of word-level ability on word-level processes and on print exposure. readers with fast and efficient word-identification skills learn more about words than do readers with poorer skills and this is related to their enthusiasm for reading. individuals who read often will improve their word-level ability, further increasing their desire to read. figure 1 also depicts indirect effects of word-level ability on sentence-level and discourse-level processes via a direct effect on wm capacity. slow and inefficient word-level processes will consume wm resources that would otherwise be devoted to high-level interpretive processes. two measures are commonly used to assess wm capacity: the reading-span task and the operation-span task. in the reading-span task, participants are asked to read aloud a set of unrelated sentences, presented one at a time, and to recall the final word of each sentence once the entire set has been presented. the operation span task is similar except that participants perform simple arithmetic problems rather than read aloud. in both tasks, span is the largest set of words that the participant can recall. the same argument can be applied to why good comprehenders recall more information from texts than do poor comprehenders. good comprehenders have strategies that are effective for encoding large and integrated structures in memory. these structures are activated when new, incoming information in a text provides cues to their retrieval. in contrast, poor comprehenders encode ideas from a text in isolation or in poorly integrated clusters. thus, the retrieval cues in short-term memory activate small, relatively impoverished, structures from long-term memory. readers differ greatly in their enthusiasm for reading, in how much they value it, and in the time they spend engaged in the activity. researchers have been interested in a variety of questions about how reading practices relate to comprehension ability and the acquisition of general world knowledge. one question has involved whether print exposure affects comprehension ability primarily by automating word-identification processes or whether print exposure also has important effects on vocabulary development, syntactic knowledge, and the acquisition of cultural and domain knowledge. why do poor comprehenders fail to execute the high-level interpretive processes that result in a coherent discourse model? the answer to this question is unclear even after decades of research. we do know that good and poor comprehenders differ in ways that are strongly correlated with comprehension performance. we still do not understand, however, the exact nature of these correlations. what accounts for the correlation between complex span tasks and comprehension performance? is the relation between span and comprehension secondary to deficits in word-level ability? do good and poor comprehenders differ primarily with respect to their ability to construct effective retrieval structures and store them in ltwm? our concern in this chapter is to take a new look at the continuing debates in psycholinguistics over what is special about figurative language use. we suggest that figurative language does not constitute a unified class of linguistic materials that are understood by special figurative processes. nonetheless, the indeterminate nature of many aspects of figurative meaning, a fact that is not properly acknowledged in many psycholinguistic studies, raises important issues about the possible trade-off between minimizing cognitive effort and maximizing cognitive effects during figurative language processing. we suggest ways that this trade-off can be empirically studied and form the basis for future psycholinguistic research on figurative language. there are many types of figurative meaning, including metaphoric, idiomatic, metonymic, ironic, satirical, proverbial, hyperbolic, oxymoronic, and so on. scholars often assume within the context of a single set of studies that there are two processes at work during figurative language understanding, such as literal vs. idiomatic, literal vs. metaphoric, or literal vs. ironic. yet if there are numerous types of meaning, must there be dozens of types of linguistic processes all at work, or potentially at work, when language is understood? psycholinguists have not addressed this question primarily because they focus too narrowly on only one kind of figurative meaning against a simple view of literal meaning. e. , that statement i just heard was ironic) to reflective appreciation. in the past, scholars have mistakenly made theoretical claims about fast processing from slower, and consciously held, interpretations and appreciations, while psycholinguists, again, have mostly neglected the rigorous study of cognitive effects, or the products of figurative language understanding. determining the constraints that shape the trade-off between cognitive effort and effects during figurative language understanding requires, in our view, the empirical study of how these various factors have their individual effects, and very likely interact in complex, even nonlinear, ways. the goals and motivations of individual speakers and listeners surely shape the cognitive effort expended when producing and understanding figurative language, and the specific orienting perspective, the methods used for assessing understanding, and the types of materials employed clearly determine the cognitive effects drawn in linguistic communication. our hope is that specific recognition of these factors will enhance attempts to create a more complete picture of the trade-off between cognitive effort and effects in figurative language use. our goal in this chapter is to provide an introduction and overview to the rapidly growing literature on eye movements and spoken language processing, focusing on applications to spoken language comprehension. section 2 focuses on methodological issues. as with any new paradigm, excitement about novel findings and new arenas of investigation must be tempered with concerns about the nature of the paradigm itself, including taskspecific strategies, and the assumptions that link the behavioral measure to the hypothesized underlying mechanisms. major topics include the logic linking eye movements to spoken language processing, how eye-movement data are collected and analyzed, sample applications illustrating some of the paradigms, including comparisons to eye-movement reading studies, and associated experimental logics, and finally, concerns and limitations that arise in examining language in a circumscribed visual world. in addressing these issues, we review results from a number of visual world studies. many of the issues that have been investigated for decades using eye movements in reading, in particular issues in lexical processing and sentence processing are now being investigated using eye movements with spoken language. although, some aspects of these processes will differ in reading and spoken language because of intrinsic differences between the two modalities, psycholinguists investigating issues such as syntactic ambiguity resolution and reference resolution using eye movements in reading and eye movements in spoken language believe they are testing theoretical claims about these processes that transcend the modality of the input. thus, the psycholinguistic community will increasingly be faced with questions about how to integrate results from visual world studies with results from studies of eye movements in reading and sometimes how to reconcile conflicting results. the majority of studies that use eye movements to examine reading make use of eye movements as a processing load measure. the primary dependent measure is fixation duration. the linking hypothesis between fixation duration and underlying processes is that reading times increase when processing becomes more difficult. in contrast, the majority of visual world studies use eye movements as a representational measure. the primary dependent measure is when and where people fixate as the utterance unfolds. we can illustrate these differences by comparing reading studies of lexical and syntactic ambiguity resolution with visual world studies that address the same issues. timing is less straightforward in eye-tracking reading when fixations are divided into multiple word regions. most of the complexities in inferring time course in reading studies arise because the sequence of fixations need not correspond to the linear order of the words in the text. this is especially the case when one considers that arguments about timing often depend on defining regions of text and then partitioning fixations into categories in ways that separate the measure from when the input is first encountered. because only one action was possible, one might attribute this to problem solving, and not as chambers et al. argued to the effects of action and affordance on referential domains. however, the manipulation had opposite effects for instructions that used an indefinite article, e. g. , pick up the cube. now put it in a can. here participants were confused when the cube would only fit in one of the cans. this strategy of pitting linguistic effects against potential problem-solving strategies is crucial for evaluating the impact of strategies due to the display and the task. perhaps, the most general caution for researchers using the visual world paradigm in both production and comprehension is to be aware that while the visual world displays entities that can be used to infer the representations that the listener is developing, it also serves as a context for the utterance itself. note that the fact that information in a display affects processing is not itself any more problematic than the observation that reference resolution, for example, is affected by whether or not potential referents are introduced linguistically in a prior discourse. one sometimes encounters the argument that the visual world paradigm can be informative about language processing only if gaze patterns to a potential referent in a display are not affected by the other characteristics of the display. this argument is no more or less valid than the comparable argument that fixations in reading can only inform us about word recognition or reference resolution if fixations to a word are unaffected by the context in which the fixated word occurs. this chapter has provided an overview to the rapidly growing literature on eye movements and spoken language processing, focusing on applications to spoken language comprehension. we have reviewed some of the foundational studies, discussed issues of data analysis and interpretation, and discussed issues that arise in comparing eye-movement reading studies to visual world studies. we have also reviewed some of the major lines of research that are utilizing this method, focusing on topics in language comprehension, including spoken word recognition, use of referential constraints in parsing, interactive conversation, and the development of language processing abilities in children. it should be clear from this review that the visual world paradigm is being employed in most traditional areas of inquiry within psycholinguistics. and in each of these areas, the visual world approach is encouraging psycholinguists to investigate uncharted theoretical and empirical issues. within the study of spoken sentence comprehension, issues about reference have taken center stage, in part because the visual world methodology makes it possible to connect research on real-time reference resolution with social and cognitive research on pragmatics and conversation. within the study of spoken word recognition, the time-locked nature of this measure has allowed researchers to explore phonemic and sub-phonemic and prosodic contributions of word recognition in utterances at a level of detail previously not possible with traditional methods. it is for these reasons and other reasons we are quite optimistic that eye-movement measures will continue rise in interest and use within the psycholinguistics community. while psycholinguistic research has regarded language as a cognitive skill, language use research has focused on the collaborative dimensions of conversation, often ignoring the cognitive basis of speaking and understanding. this tends to result in theories based on descriptive principles rather than explanatory mechanisms. fortunately, these two traditions are starting to merge, auguring the development of a theory of language processing that is explanatory, cognitively plausible, and ecologically valid. in this chapter, we review research that lays the groundwork for such a theory. full constraint. this model adopts the strongest stance regarding the use of common ground in language processing; thus, it lies at one extreme of the spectrum of possible theories. under full constraint, all levels of language production or comprehension have full access to common ground, and common ground imposes an immediate, obligatory, and complete constraint on the operation of each level. this account predicts that information that is available to the speaker or listener but that is not part of their common ground would have no impact on language processing. the matcher then became a director for a new participant matcher, and the task was repeated. finally, the new matcher became a director with a new participant. even though none of the participants in this third conversation interacted with the confederate who originally established the precedent terms, those terms were more likely to show up in this third conversation than the alternate terms. this lends some support to the idea that speakers do not necessarily use precedents in a partner-specific manner. but perhaps listeners inferred common ground between the two speakers precisely because those speakers choose the same names for an unfamiliar object. for this reason, barr and keysar conducted an additional experiment in which a speaker broke a precedent instead of following it. if precedents are used in a partner-specific manner, then the breaking of a precedent should lead to greater interference when it was broken by the same person who established it, as compared to when it was broken by a new speaker. barr and keysar found equally strong interference when precedents were violated by a new or old speaker. thus, listeners appear to use precedents when comprehending speech because they are cognitively available, not because they are part of their common ground with the speaker. for language comprehension, the results clearly reject the full constraint model, since effects of private knowledge on comprehension have now been widely replicated in many studies by various laboratories, using a variety of tasks. the ordinary memory view also cannot explain the majority of the findings, because comprehenders appear to honor the distinction between private and common information. instead, the bulk of evidence that we reviewed on language comprehension could be construed as supporting either perspective adjustment or partial constraint. notably absent from the literature to date have been discussions of a dual process model for comprehension, although it could also explain the body of findings. more fine-grained, process-level investigations are needed to distinguish between these three competing models. developing a theory of how people adapt their language behavior to meet the informational needs of other individuals is one of the central goals of research on language use. to meet this goal, researchers must surmount the challenges posed by the complexity of language use, a complexity that derives from its simultaneous cultural, interactional, and cognitive nature. although the research of the past few decades has made great strides, understanding the joint activity of conversation is a task that will require the joint activities of researchers for many decades to come. the second account of task-specific sentenceand structure-specific deficits is based on the observation that syntactic structure determines not only propositional semantic values such as thematic roles, but discourse-level representations, such as focus, presuppositions, etc. as well. while discourse level representations are logically irrelevant to the performance of the tasks we used, which only require consideration of thematic roles and co-indexation, they may affect performance, as is well documented for many other implicit processes, and may do so differently in different tasks. for instance, passives and cleft-object sentences place the theme in the discourse focus. a patient who has difficulty formulating an action in which the focused element is the theme, but who can match a focused theme to depictions of thematic roles, would have trouble with passive and cleft object sentences only in enactment. on this account, task-specific sentenceor structurespecific deficits arise in the course of mapping the combination of discourse and propositional meanings onto tasks. confirmatory factor analyses showed that one-factor solutions were preferred to two-factor solutions for these analyses, that the structure of the patient and control factor analyses of rt data did not differ substantially, and that imposing a factor structure that reflected the groupings of sentence types that corresponded to the syntactic structures that were varied in the creation of the stimuli did not account for more variance than the structure that emerged from the unconstrained analysis. rotated factors, of course, returned more factors, but, again, none of the factors in these analyses contained groupings of sentence types that corresponded to the syntactic structures that were varied in the creation of the stimuli. when we performed factor analyses over both performances on the screening tasks that the patients had taken and performances on the syntactic tasks, the unrotated factor analysis was quite different and returned several factors that reflected performance on these different tasks. whether the different types of information that some researchers believe is used together in the process of comprehension would load on a single factor, like the different structures we have studied in the comprehension tasks, or on different factors, like different tasks we used, remains to be determined. finally, we examine a set of issues common to both the lexical and sentential level of processing that include the cognitive factors that modulate l2 processing, the consequences of cross-language similarity, the directionality of cross-language influences, and the more general implications of research on bilingualism for theories of word recognition, lexical access, and sentence processing. although our review focuses primarily on behavioral evidence from studies of the performance of second language learners and relatively proficient bilinguals, we also consider the emerging literature on the neural basis of bilingualism. they reasoned that if words in the l2 were lexically mediated via the l1, then translation into the l2 should be performed more quickly than picture naming because the translation would be directly available without conceptual processing. picture naming would necessarily be slower than translation because to name a picture in l2 would require first accessing its meaning and name in l1, and only then could the l2 name be retrieved by its association with the l1 translation. however, if words in the l2 access their respective meanings directly, then all other things being equal, picture naming in l2 and translation into the l2 should take about the same amount of time. potter et al. found support for the concept mediation predictions. the apparent discrepancy in the findings for l2 learners may be attributed to their level of proficiency. the learners in the potter et al. study were high school students about to travel to france for a summer immersion experience. although they were far from proficient in french, they were presumably highly motivated learners who were likely to have been beyond the very earliest stages of acquisition. signed languages of the deaf are naturally evolving linguistic systems exhibiting the full range of linguistic complexity found in speech. while the field of sign language psycholinguistics is still in its adolescence, most phenomena that form the foundation of our understanding of speech perception and production, such as lexicality and frequency effects, semanticand form-based priming, categorical perception, production slips, and tip-of-the-finger phenomena, are well attested in sign languages. in addition, neurolinguistic studies have helped identify brain regions critical for sign language and have documented the dissolution of sign language in cases of sign aphasia. new findings from neuroimaging have confirmed and extended our understanding of the intricacies of the neural system underlying sign language use. taken together, these studies provide a privileged avenue for understanding the generality of the cognitive constraints evidenced in language processing and the biological basis for human language. in one aspectual inflection that signals intensity or forcefulness, we find a reduction in elbow extension and an increase in movement velocity. a temporal inflection, giving rise to a meaning that this action occurred again and again over time, adopts an elliptical path movement that passes by the chin in repeated cycles. inflection for grammatical number agreement may take on a sequence of repeated straight movements directed towards two or three laterally and evenly displaced points in space. finally, grammatical verb agreement inflections modulate the beginning and end of the path movements which in turn signal the grammatical subject and object of the sentences, respectively. syntax refers to a level of language form that specifies the interrelationship between words in a sentence. formal studies of syntax reveal universal and language-specific patterns and constraints that reliably contribute to interpretation of the sentence meaning, especially those specifying thematic roles. psycholinguistic studies of syntactic processing strive to understand how these structured patterns are exploited during on-line comprehension of sentences, and how this information is combined with word meaning to give rise to a conceptualization of the intended message. moreover, burgeoning cognitive neuroscience research has also begun to specify the commonalities and differences between neural systems underlying spoken and signed language forms. while some unique and subtle differences have been found between their respective processing, overwhelming evidence suggest a great deal of homology between speech and sign neural representations. these data suggests that core properties underlie the neural capacity for human language, regardless of the surface form taken by the linguistic communicative system. future studies will doubtless continue to further specify both the common and unique aspects of these forms of language while striving to better understand the processing domains under which the modality of language expression does and does not affect the final form of the mental structure of language. in this way, we may come to understand both the biological and environmental contributions that shape human linguistic communication. this theme is reflected in some of the most interesting new research on infant speech perception, early word learning, and the emergence of efficiency in spoken language understanding, to be reviewed in the following sections. the purpose of this brief review is to point to a few of the recent contributions to research on language acquisition in infancy that exemplify this sort of probabilistic perspective. we do not attempt to provide a comprehensive review of this area and certainly do not assume that this approach has all the answers. instead, our goal is to describe new research on how children start out by attending to patterns in speech sounds in the first year and learn to listen for meaning in speech in the second year. by focusing on how infants, from the beginning, attend to multiple sources of information in making sense of spoken language, this approach emphasizes the continuity between current psycholinguistic theories about how language is used and emerging developmental perspectives on how language is learned. this brief review of research on how infants begin to make sense of speech sounds over the first two years of life has focused on emerging perspectives in the field. the skill of the human infant in integrating cues from multiple sources of probabilistic information is evident at every developmental level, as the infant first discerns regularities in patterns of meaningless sounds, then begins to appreciate words and their meanings and to build up more complex meanings through understanding and using words in combination. until a wide range of linguistic phenomena was considered, including both positive and negative data, linguists failed to see that the two phenomena were related. assuming that language-learners do not have access to such complex arrays of positive and negative data, nativists conclude that language-learners must have an advantage over linguists, in knowing the linguistic constraint in advance of encountering the limited primary linguistic data to which they have access. these findings are a challenge to the experience-dependent approach. on that approach, as we noted earlier, it is conceivable that children could master the facts about the distribution of negative polarity items, such as any, based on statistical properties of the input. children would have to be exceedingly accomplished at keeping track of the linguistic environments that license such items, however, to avoid producing them in illicit environments. the challenge posed by the asymmetry in the interpretation of disjunction or, in the restrictor versus the scope of the universal quantifier every is more formidable, since the distinction is one of interpretation and does not involve the distribution of lexical material. the semantic subset principle enforces an ordering on the values of certain parameters, where one value makes a sentence true in a subset of the circumstances that make it true on the other value. the semantic subset principle compels children to adopt the subset value of the parameter as their initial interpretation; this value is abandoned only on the basis of positive evidence in the local language. if children adopted the superset value instead, they would generate sentences that are not in the local language, in addition to sentences in the local language. this raises a familiar learnability problem: in the absence of negative evidence, it is difficult to see how children would purge their grammars of the means for generating sentences that are not acceptable in the local language. to avoid this problem, the semantic subset principle orders the value of parameters. at the acoustic level, speech is represented by continuous waves of acoustic energy. this acoustic energy can be observed on a spectrogram, which displays acoustic energy in terms of frequency over time. the most important observation made is that virtually none of the spacing or breaks we perceive between words, syllables, or sounds within syllables is visible. that we perceive distinct words and parts of words is due to our perceptual and cognitive machinery, as opposed to a characteristic inherent in the physical signal itself. thus, predictors in the causal model of word-level reading in third grade were first-grade measures of the three phonological constructs, vocabulary, and word-level reading. the autoregressor was included to rule out an artifactual cause of a spurious causal influence. it is possible that the only causal variable operating on the outcome of word-level measured in third-grade is word-level reading in first grade. in other words, if you already are at the top of your class in reading in first grade, you are likely to continue to be above your peers because you are starting with an advantage. if the autoregressor of first-grade reading is omitted from the model, any variable included in the model that is correlated with the omitted first-grade reading variable will show a spurious causal influence. how should such findings be characterized? none of the groups can reasonably be described as being in a pre-mastery, optional period of development, given that the adult grammar allows optional use. the especially limited use by the children with sli, then, seems to be even less interpretable from an optional period point of view. these children may significantly underutilize aspect morphemes, but not because they make an assumption about optionality that is qualitatively different from that of the other children. this type of relationship between knowledge and processing might also provide a plausible explanation for the protracted nature of the optional period seen in sli. if the processing limitations of children with sli are significant, these children may persist in producing less mature forms even after the constraint is no longer in effect. that is, nonfinite syntactic frames with a long history of being retrieved may have activation levels that allow them to compete with finite frames even when the original basis for their retrieval is no longer present. the findings emerging from this study support not only the notion of priming effects that might be related to processing demands, but also gives further credence to a key assumption of the optional use approaches. note that if the children had been attempting to repeat the finite prime sentences accurately and simply committed the performance error of leaving out the auxiliary form, their prime sentence productions would have involved the same finite syntactic frame needed for the target sentence. with the syntactic frame activated, the retrieval of the same frame for the target sentence production should have been facilitated, leaving more resources for the final step of retrieving the necessary auxiliary verb. however, such a facilitative effect was only seen when the finite prime sentence was produced with the auxiliary form. this suggests that prime sentence repetitions lacking the auxiliary form may have been attempts at non-finite sentences. a second possible way that knowledge and processing factors may operate together is to assume that the types of insights credited to children in linguistic knowledge accounts actually require more evidence from the input than is usually acknowledged. here, knowledge is not defined as principles dependent only on biological maturation and minimal input, but rather as the accumulation of evidence from the input. because processing limitations influence the consistency with which children with sli interpret exemplars in the input, their development will be slower than that of typically developing peers. discussion. the disorders included here are not the only causes of neurologic morbidity and mortality nor are they necessarily the most common. we selected a limited number of disorders of the cns that neurologists are likely to diagnose and treat and that are generally presumed to have a high burden of illness. we did not address other frequent and burdensome conditions, such as chronic pain, mental retardation, peripheral neuropathies, or sleep disorders, some of which lack well-established diagnostic criteria or are treated primarily by non-neurologists. we considered disorders that are primarily psychiatric to be beyond our scope. a few disorders originally considered, such as muscular dystrophy, were omitted because of insufficient studies. some disorders, such as cns neoplasms, are systematically tracked and their incidence is summarized in other sources. 253 other important disorders, such as essential tremor, restless legs syndrome, and vascular dementia, were not included but may merit future reviews. comparisons with an earlier review1 of the epidemiology of a range of similar disorders may be informative. although stroke mortality has decreased,149 the comparison of our data with the earlier review suggests a possible increase in stroke incidence, despite studies showing an earlier decline over several decades. 255,256 possible explanations might include more sensitive diagnostic methods using neuroimaging and a significant increase in the proportion of older adults in the population. finally, although the earlier review included all types of dementia, in comparison, the current rates of ad alone are substantially higher. factors cited earlier such as an increase in the proportion of older people in the population and better case ascertainment may be important, but the possibility of a real increase in the incidence of dementia merits further research. for most disorders, insufficient class i evidence from the united states is available. additional highquality data are often available from non-us developed countries, perhaps in part because more centralized health care systems facilitate case ascertainment and study. with caution, findings obtained from one population may be generalized to others to the extent that the demographic, cultural, and environmental characteristics of the populations are similar. we recognize, however, that even among developed countries, differences in culture, age distribution, organization of health care and record keeping, genetic susceptibility, environmental exposures, and the socioeconomic composition of populations might influence the occurrence and detection of the conditions that we reviewed. the size of nanoscale devices also allows them to interact readily with biomolecules on the cell surface and within the cell, often in ways that do not alter the behavior and biochemical properties of those molecules . such ready access to the interior of a living cell affords the opportunity for unprecedented gains on the clinical and basic research frontiers. the ability to interact with receptors, nucleic acids, transcription factors, and other signaling proteins at their own molecular scales should provide the data needed to better understand the complex regulatory and signaling networks and transport processes that govern the behavior of cells in their normal state and as they undergo the changes that transform them during the disease process . remarriages and stepfamilies are becoming increasingly common. three factors set the stage for further major changes in families: fertility falling to very low levels; increasing longevity; and changing mores of marriage, cohabitation, and divorce. in a population with one child per family, no children have siblings. in the next generation, the children of those children have no cousins, aunts, or uncles. if adults live 80 years and bear children between age 20 and 30 on average, then the parents will have decades of life after their children have reached adulthood and their children will have decades of life with elderly parents. the full effects on marriage, child bearing, and child rearing of greater equality between the sexes in education; earnings; and social, legal, and political rights have yet to be felt or understood. the overall structure of the dimers differs for cxc and cc chemokines and it was originally believed that they interact with their receptors by distinct mechanisms. it was later found, however, that the tendency to form dimers varies and that some chemokines, mcp-3 for instance , are always monomeric. dimers form at concentrations that are much higher than those required for biological activity. there is little doubt today that chemokines interact with their receptors in a oneto-cone mode . an intriguing recent study shows that cxcr4 and ccr7 are frequently expressed in human breast cancer cell lines and breast tumour tissue . sdf-1, the ligand for cxcr4, is shown to be produced preferentially in lung, liver and bone marrow where breast cancers usually form metastases. this is not the case for slc, the ligand for ccr7, which was found only in lymph nodes, as would be expected in view of its function in lymphocyte homing. the paper also shows that extracts of lung, liver, bone marrow and lymph node tissues attract cxcr4bearing cells in vitro, and that anti-cxcr4 markedly decreases metastasis formation in scid mice after administration of breast cancer cell lines. the data on cxcr4 and sdf-1 suggest that chemokines may be involved in the metastatic spreading of tumours. such conclusions cannot be drawn for ccr7, although tumour cells bearing this receptor may be attracted into draining lymph nodes by slc and elc, which are expressed there. the role of ccr10, which was found in malignant melanoma cell lines is speculative. learning how to write a coherent, effective text is a difficult and protracted achievement of cognitive development that contrasts sharply with the acquisition of speech. by the age of 5, spoken language is normally highly developed with a working vocabulary of several thousand words and an ability to comprehend and produce grammatical sentences. although the specific contribution of a genetic predisposition for language learning is unsettled, it is apparent that speech acquisition is a natural part of early human development. literacy, on the other hand, is a purely cultural achievement that may never be learned at all. reading and writing are partly mediated by the phonological speech system, but an independent orthographic system must also be learned. the objectives of the present paper are, first, to sketch the broad outlines of how writing skill develops across three stages, as a child matures and learns the craft of composition through late adolescence and into early adulthood. the first two knowledge-telling and knowledge-transforming are well documented. a third stage knowledge crafting is more speculative, but important for understanding expert or professional levels of writing skill. second, it is suggested that the primary constraint on progression through these stages is the limited capacity of the central executive of working memory. executive attention must not only be given to language generation, but also be available for planning ideas, reviewing ideas, and coordinating all three processes. at the same time, attention must be given to maintaining multiple representations of the text in working memory. achieving the necessary cognitive control can only occur by reducing the demands on the central executive. third, the implications of these views for writing education will be discussed. demand reduction, it will be argued, occurs by learning domain-specific knowledge that can be rapidly retrieved from long-term memory rather than held in short-term working memory and by automating to some degree the basic writing processes. these reductions can perhaps best be achieved using the training methods of cognitive apprenticeship, particularly with an emphasize on deliberate practice. fourth, there are two facts literary precocity and working memory decline in older, professional writers that would seem paradoxical in light of the present arguments. these are considered before concluding the paper. the three stages shown in figure 1 are intended to demarcate three macro-stages of writing development. writing skill is shown as continuously improving as a function of practice, as is typical for perceptual-motor and cognitive skills in general. the microchanges underlying the gradual improvement that drive the transition to the next macro-stage fall beyond the scope of the present article. but, in general, it is assumed that both the basic writing processes of planning, language generation, and reviewing, plus the mental representations that must be generated and held in working memory, undergo continuous developmental changes through maturation and learning within specific writing tasks. as a consequence of the task specificity, a child might be operating at a more advanced stage in writing, say, narrative texts, assuming these are most practiced, compared with persuasive texts. as shown in figure 1, then, the stage of knowledge-telling is dominated by the author's representation. by the stage of knowledge-transforming, the text representation is both sufficiently detailed and stable enough to maintain in working memory to permit an the reader representation is not yet routinely entered into the interaction in working memory until the stage of knowledge-crafting. it must first become sufficiently elaborate and stable to maintain and working memory resources must be available to coordinate all three representations. the key point made here is the heavy demands made on working memory by planning, sentence generation, and reviewing processes limit not only the coordination of these basic cognitive processes, but also the maintenance and use of the three distinct representations underlying the composition of expert writers. as many as half of their sample of 34 students commented on revisions made to improve coherence and add text in addition to avoiding repetition and making it sound better in general. it is suggested, though, that working memory limitations in holding and manipulating representations of how the reader interprets the text, while simultaneously managing the author and text representations, is a fundamental brake on the writing skill of developing writers throughout childhood, adolescence, and young adulthood. it helps to explain, for example, why adolescent writers do not routinely and spontaneously make the kinds of deep structural revisions found in experienced adult writers. yet, being aware of a fictional reader in generating text is different from being able to read the text as it is currently written from another person's perspective. audience awareness should be regarded as a necessary, but not sufficient, condition for eventually developing the capacity to read and interpret the author's own text from the standpoint of an imagined or fictional reader. an additional necessary condition is having a sufficiently developed working memory system to coordinate the author, text, and reader representations concurrently with relative ease. executive attention, in particular, must be fully mature and effectively deployed to maintain and manipulate all three of these representations as the writer recursively plans, generates, and reviews the emerging text. in knowledge-crafting, the reader's interpretation of the text must feed back to the way the text reads to the author and to the message the author wishes to convey in the first place. knowledge-crafting, then, is characterized by a three-way interaction among representations held in working memory. an expert, professional writer operating at the stage of knowledge-crafting is able to maintain and manipulate in working memory representations of the author's ideas, the text itself, and the prospective reader's interpretation of the text. both knowledgecrafting and the intermediate stage of knowledge-transforming require the ability to coordinate complex interactions of planning ideas, text generation, and reviewing ideas and text. the most important constraint on developing from knowledge-telling to knowledge-transforming, and possibly then on to knowledge-crafting is the limitations of the central executive component of working memory. writers may know a great deal, but they cannot use what they know unless multiple representations are maintained in working memory and writing processes are artfully orchestrated. it is not enough to know how to plan or how to write clear sentences, for example, if the developing writer is unable to interweave planning and generation in a manner characteristic of mature writers. these basic composing processes must be controlled effectively as well. in light of the arguments raised here, there are two facts about writing development across the lifespan that would appear to be paradoxical. to see this point, it is helpful to begin by summarizing the central theme of the paper. the development of writing skills arguably requires decades of increasingly sophisticated stages of knowledge-telling, knowledge-transforming, and knowledgecrafting. serious written composition simultaneously challenges the human capacities for language, memory, and thinking. the most advanced stage achieved only at professional levels of expertise involves routinely and adeptly juggling multiple representations in working memory and coordinating numerous interactions among multiple writing processes. both knowledge-transforming and, especially, knowledge-crafting place a heavy demand on working memory resources. in particular, executive attention must be available for self-regulation and this presumably cannot happen without adequate maturation, domain-specific learning, and training. to expect a 5 year old to write like a college-student is to expect the impossible, if for no other reason than the frontal lobes supporting executive function have not yet matured. moreover, as working memory begins to decline with advanced age in older adults, one might equally expect a deterioration of writing ability. this book is an attempt to make modern literary theory intelligible and attractive to as wide a readership as possible. since it first appeared in 1983, i am gratified to report that it has been studied by lawyers as well as literary critics, anthropologists as well as cultural theorists. in one sense, perhaps, this isn't all that surprising. as the book itself tries to demonstrate, there is in fact no 'literary theory', in the sense of a body of theory which springs from, or is applicable to, literature alone. none of the approaches outlined in this book, from phenomenology and semiotics to structuralism and psycho analysis, is simply concerned with 'literary' writing. on the contrary, they all emerged from other areas of the humanities, and have implications well beyond literature itself. this, i imagine, has been one reason for the book's popularity, and one reason which makes a new edition of it worthwhile. but i have also been struck by the number of non-academic readers it has attracted. unlike most such works, it has managed to reach a readership beyond academia, and this is especially interesting in the light of literary theory's so-called elitism. if it is a difficult, even esoteric language, then it seems to be one which interests people who have never seen the inside of a university; and if this is so, then some of those inside universities who dismiss it for its esotericism ought to think again. it is encouraging, anyway, that in a postmodern age in which meaning, like everything else, is expected to be instantly consumable, there are those who have found the labour of acquiring new ways of speaking of literature to be worthwhile. what is truly elitist in literary studies is the idea that works of literature can only be appreciated by those with a particular sort of cultural breeding. there are those who have 'literary values' in their bones, and those who languish in the outer darkness. one important reason for the growth of literary theory since the 1960s was the gradual breakdown of this assumption, under the impact of new kinds of students entering higher education from supposedly 'uncultivated' back grounds. theory was a way of emancipating literary works from the stranglehold of a 'civilized sensibility', and throwing them open to a kind of analysis in which, in principle at least, anyone could participate. those who complain of the difficulty of such theory would often, ironically enough, not expect to understand a textbook of biology or chemical engineering straight off. why then should literary studies be any different? perhaps because we expect literature itself to be an 'ordinary' kind oflanguage instantly available to everyone; but this is itself a very particular 'theory' of literature. if one wanted to put a date on the beginnings of the transformation which has overtaken literary theory in this century, one could do worse than settle on 1917, the year in which the young russian formalist viktor shklovsky published his pioneering essay 'art as device'. since then, and especially over the past two decades, there has been a striking proliferation of literary theory: the very meaning of 'literature', 'reading' and 'criticism' has under gone deep alteration. but not much of this theoretical revolution has yet spread beyond a circle of specialists and enthusiasts: it has still to make its full impact on the student of literature and the general reader. the simple response to this is that without some kind of theory, however unreflective and implicit. . we would not know what a 'literary work' was in the first place, or how we were to read it. hostility to theory usually means an opposition to other people's theories and an oblivion of one's own. one purpose of this book is to lift that repression and allow us to remember. 2 gibbon no doubt thought that he was writing the historical truth, and so perhaps did the authors of genesis, but they are now read as 'fact' by some and 'fiction' by others; newman certainly thought his theological meditations were true but they are now for many readers 'literature'. moreover, if 'literature' includes much 'factual' writing, it also excludes quite a lot of fiction. superman comic and mills and boon novels are fictional but not generally regarded as litera ture, and certainly not as literature. ifliterature is 'creative' or 'imaginative' writing, does this imply that history, philosophy and natural science are uncreative and unimaginative? the formalists started out by seeing the literary work as a more or less arbitrary assemblage of 'devices', and only later came to see these devices as interrelated elements or 'functions' within a total textual system. 'devices' included sound, imagery, rhythm, syntax, metre, rhyme, narrative tech niques, in fact the whole stock of formal literary elements; and what all of these elements had in common was their 'estranging' or 'defamiliarizing' effect. what was specific to literary language, what distinguished it from other forms of discourse, was that it 'deformed' ordinary language in various ways. under the pressure of literary devices, ordinary language was intensi fied, condensed, twisted, telescoped, drawn out, turned on its head. it was language 'made strange'; and because of this estrangement, the everyday world was also suddenly made unfamiliar. in the routines of everyday speech, our perceptions of and responses to reality become stale, blunted, or, as the formalists would say, 'automatized'. literature, by forcing us into a dramatic awareness of language, refreshes these habitual responses and renders objects more 'perceptible'. literary discourse estranges or alienates ordinary speech, but in doing so, paradoxically, brings us into a fuller, more intimate possession of experience. most of the time we breathe in air without being conscious of it: like language, it is the very medium in which we move. but if the air is suddenly thickened or infected we are forced to attend to our breathing with new vigilance, and the effect of this may be a heightened experience of our bodily life. we read a scribbled note from a friend without paying much attention to its narrative structure; but if a story breaks off and begins again, switches constantly from one narrative level to another and delays its climax to keep us in suspense, we become freshly conscious of how it is constructed at the same time as our engagement with it may be intensified. the story, as the formalists would argue, uses 'impeding' or 'retarding' devices to hold our attention; and in literary language, these devices are 'laid. bare'. the formalists, then, saw literary language as a set of deviations from a norm, a kind of linguistic violence: literature is a 'special' kind of language, in contrast to the 'ordinary' language we commonly use. but to spot a deviation implies being able to identify the norm from which it swerves. though 'ordinary language' is a concept beloved of some oxford philoso phers, the ordinary language of oxford philosophers has little in common with the ordinary language of glaswegian dockers. the language both social groups use to write love letters usually differs from the way they talk to the local vicar. the idea that there is a single 'normal' language, a common currency shared equally by all members of society, is an illusion. any actual language consists of a highly complex range of discourses, differentiated according to class, region, gender, status and so on, which can by no means be neatly unified into a single homogeneous linguistic community. one person's norm may be another's deviation: 'ginnel' for 'alleyway' may be poetic in brighton but ordinary language in barnsley. it is not that the russian formalists did not realize all this. they recog nized that norms and deviations shifted around from one social or historical context to another that 'poetry' in this sense depends on where you happen to be standing at the time. the fact that a piece of language was 'estranging' did not guarantee that it was always and everywhere so: it was estranging only against a certain normative linguistic background, and if this altered then the writing might cease to be perceptible as literary. if everyone used phrases like 'unravished bride of quietness' in ordinary pub conversation, this kind of language might cease to be poetic. for the formalists, in other words, 'literariness' was a function of the differential relations between one sort of discourse and another; it was not an eternally given property. they were not out to define 'literature', but 'literariness' special uses of lan guage, which could be found in 'literary' texts but also in many places outside them. nevertheless, the formalists still presumed that 'making strange' was the essence of the literary. it was just that they relativized this use of language, saw it as a matter of contrast between one type of speech and another. but what if i were to hear someone at the next pub table remark 'this is aw fully squiggly handwriting! ' is this 'literary' or 'non-literary' language? as a matter of fact it is 'literary' language, because it comes from knut hamsun's novel hunger. but how do i know that it is literary? it doesn't, after all, focus any particular attention on itself as a verbal performance. one answer to the question of how i know that this is literary is that it comes from knut hamsun's novel hunger. it is part of a text which i read as 'fictional', which announces itself as a 'novel', which may be put on university literature syllabuses and so on. another problem with the 'estrangement' case is that there is no kind of writing which cannot, given sufficient ingenuity, be read as estranging. consider a prosaic, quite unambiguous statement like the one sometimes seen in the london underground system: 'dogs must be carried on the escalator. ' this is not perhaps quite as unambiguous as it seems at first sight: does it mean that you must carry a dog on the escalator? are you likely to be banned from the escalator unless you can find some stray mongrel to clutch in your arms on the way up? many apparently straightforward notices contain such ambiguities: 'refuse to be put in this basket,' for instance, or the british road-sign 'way out' as read by a californian. but even leaving such troubling ambiguities aside, it is surely obvious that the underground notice could be read as literature. one could let oneself be arrested by the abrupt, minatory staccato of the first ponderous monosyllables; find one's mind drifting, by the time it had reached the rich allusiveness of 'carried', to suggestive resonances of helping lame dogs through life; and perhaps even detect in the very lilt and inflection of the word 'escalator' a miming of the rolling, up-and-down motion of the thing itself. this may well be a fruitless sort of pursuit,but it is not significantly more fruitless than claiming to hear the cut and thrust of the rapiers in some poetic description of a duel, and it at least has the advantage of suggesting that 'literature' may be at least as much a question of what people do to writing as of what writing does to them. he is telling us something about women and love in general. literature, then, we might say, is 'non-pragmatic' discourse: unlike biology textbooks and notes to the milkman it serves no immediate practical purpose, but is to be taken as referring to a general state of affairs. sometimes, though not always, it may employ peculiar language as though to make this fact obvious to signal that what is at stake is a way oftalking about a woman, rather than any particular real-life woman. this focusing on the way of talking, rather than on the reality ofwhat is talked about, is sometimes taken to indicate that we mean by literature a kind of self-referential language, a language which talks about itself. there are, however, problems with this way of defining literature too. for one thing, it would probably have come as a surprise to george orwell to hear that his essays were to be read as though the topics he discussed were less important than the way he discussed them. in much that is classified as literature, the truth-value and practical relevance of what is said is consid ered important to the overall effect. but even if treating discourse 'non pragmatically' is part of what is meant by 'literature', then it follows from this 'definition' that literature cannot in fact be 'objectively' defined. it leaves the definition ofliterature up to how somebody decides to read, not to the nature of what is written. there are certain kinds of writing poems, plays, novels which are fairly obviously intended to be 'non-pragmatic' in this sense, but this does not guarantee that they will actually be read in this way. i might well read gibbon's account of the roman empire not because i am misguided enough to believe that it will be reliably informative about ancient rome but because i enjoy gibbon's prose style, or revel in images of human corruption whatever their historical source. but i might read robert burns's poem because it is not clear to me, as a japanese horticulturalist, whether or not the red rose flourished in eighteenth-century britain. this, it will be said, is not reading it 'as literature'; but am i reading orwell's essays as literature only if i generalize what he says about the spanish civil war to some cosmic utterance about human life? it is true that many of the works studied as literature in academic institutions were 'constructed' to be read as literature, but it is also true that many of them were not. a piece of writing may start offlife as history or philosophy and then come to be ranked as literature; or it may start off as literature and then come to be valued for its archaeological significance. in this sense, one can think of literature less as some inherent quality or set of qualities displayed by certain kinds of writing all the way from beowulf to virginia woolf, than as a number of ways in which people relate themselves to writing. it would not be easy to isolate, from all that has been variously called 'literature', some constant set of inherent features. in fact it would be as impossible as trying to identify the single distinguishing feature which all games have in common. there is no 'essence' ofliterature whatsoever. any bit of writing may be read 'non-pragmatically', if that is what reading a text as literature means, just as any writing may be read 'poetically'. if i pore over the railway timetable not to discover a train connection but to stimulate in myself general reflections on the speed and complexity of modern existence, then i might be said to be reading it as literature. john m. ellis has argued that the term 'literature' operates rather like the word 'weed': weeds are not particular kinds of plant, but just any kind of plant which for some reason or another a gardener does not want around. ' perhaps 'literature' means some thing like the opposite: any kind of writing which for some reason or another somebody values highly. as the philosophers might say, 'literature' and 'weed' are functional rather than ontological terms: they tell us about what we do, not about the fixed being of things. they tell us about the role of a text or a thistle in a social context, its relations with and differences from its surroundings, the ways it behaves, the purposes it may be put to and the human practices clustered around it. 'literature' is in this sense a purely formal, empty sort of definition. even if we claim that it is a non-pragmatic treatment of language, we have still not arrived at an 'essence' of literature because this is also so of other linguistic practices such as jokes. in any case, it is far from clear that we can discriminate neatly between 'practical' and 'non-practical' ways of relating ourselves to language. reading a novel for pleasure obviously differs from reading a road sign for information, but how about reading a biology textbook to improve your mind? is that a 'pragmatic' treatment of language or not? in many societies, 'literature' has served highly practical functions such as religious ones; distinguishing sharply between 'practical' and 'non-practical' may only be possible in a society like ours, where literature has ceased to have much practical function at all. we may be offering as a general definition a sense of the 'literary' which is in fact historically specific. perhaps the simple answer is that the first three are examples of 'fine writing', whereas the last three are not. this answer has the disadvantage of being largely untrue, at least in my judgement, but it has the advantage of suggesting that by and large people term 'literature' writing which they think is good. an obvious objection to this is that if it were entirely true there would be no such thing as 'bad literature'. i may consider lamb and macaulay overrated, but that does not necessarily mean that i stop regarding them as literature. you may consider raymond chandler 'good of his kind', but not exactly literature. on the other hand, if macaulay were a really bad writer if he had no grasp at all of grammar and seemed interested in nothing but white mice then people might well not call his work literature at all, even bad literature. value-judgements would certainly seem to have a lot to do with what is judged literature and what isn't not necessarily in the sense that writing has to be 'fine' to be literary, but that it has to be ofthe kind that is judged fine: it may be an inferior example of a generally valued mode. nobody would bother to say that a bus ticket was an example of inferior literature, but someone might well say that the poetry of ernest dowson was. the term 'fine writing', or belles lettres, is in this sense ambiguous: it denotes a sort of writing which is generally highly regarded, while not necessarily committing you to the opinion that a particular specimen of it is 'good'. with this reservation, the suggestion that 'literature' is a highly valued kind of writing is an illuminating one. but it has one fairly devastating consequence. it means that we can drop once and for all the illusion that the category 'literature' is 'objective', in the sense of being eternally given and immutable. anything can be literature, and anything which is regarded as unalterably and unquestionably literature shakespeare, for example can cease to be literature. any belief that the study of literature is the study of a stable, well-definable entity, as entomology is the study of insects, can be abandoned as a chimera. some kinds of fiction are literature and some are not; some literature is fictional and some is not; some literature is verbally self-regarding, while some highly-wrought rhetoric is not literature. litera ture, in the sense of a set of works of assured and unalterable value, distin guished by certain shared inherent properties, does not exist. just as people may treat a work as philosophy in one century and as literature in the next, or vice versa, so they may change their minds about what writing they consider valuable. they may even change their minds about the grounds they use for judging what is valuable and what is not. this, as i have suggested, does not necessarily mean that they will refuse the title of literature to a work which they have come to deem inferior: they may still call it literature, meaning roughly that it belongs to the type of writing which they generally value. but it does mean that the so-called 'literary canon', the unquestioned 'great tradition' of the 'national literature', has to be recognized as a construct, fashioned by particu lar people for particular reasons at a certain time. there is no such thing as a literary work or tradition which is valuable in itself, regardless of what anyone might have said or come to say about it. 'value' is a transitive term: it means whatever is valued by certain people in specific situations, accord ing to particular criteria and in the light of given purposes. it is thus quite possible that, given a deep enough transformation of our history, we may in the future produce a society which is unable to get anything at all out of shakespeare. his works might simply seem desperately alien, full of styles of thought and feeling which such a society found limited or irrelevant. in such a situation, shakespeare would be no more valuable than much present-day graffiti. and though many people would consider such a social condition tragically impoverished, it seems to me dogmatic not to entertain the possi bility that it might arise rather from a general human enrichment. karl marx was troubled by the question of why ancient greek art retained an 'eternal charm', even though the social conditions which produced it had long passed; but how do we know that it will remain 'eternally' charming, since history has not yet ended? let us imagine that by dint of some deft archaeo logical research we discovered a great deal more about what ancient greek tragedy actually meant to its original audiences, recognized that these con cerns were utterly remote from our own, and began to read the plays again in the light of this deepened knowledge. one result might be that we stopped enjoying them. we might come to see that we had enjoyed them previously because we were unwittingly reading them in the light of our own preoccu pations; once this became less possible, the drama might cease to speak at all significantly to us. 'our' homer is not identical with the homer of the middle ages, nor 'our' shakespeare with that of his contem poraries; it is rather that different historical periods have constructed a 'different' homer and shakespeare for their own purposes, and found in these texts elements to value or devalue, though not necessarily the same ones. all literary works, in other words, are 'rewritten', if only uncon sciously, by the societies which read them; indeed there is no reading of a work which is not also a 're-writing'. no work, and no current evaluation of it, can simply be extended to new groups of people without being changed, perhaps almost unrecognizably, in the process; and this is one reason why what counts as literature is a notably unstable affair. i do not mean that it is unstable because value-judgements are 'subjec tive'. according to this view, the world is divided between solid facts 'out there' like grand central station, and arbitrary value-judgements 'in here' such as liking bananas or feeling that the tone of a yeats poem veers from defensive hectoring to grimly resilient resignation. facts are public and unimpeachable, values are private and gratuitous. there is an obvious dif ference between recounting a fact, such as 'this cathedral was built in 1612,' and registering a value-judgement, such as 'this cathedral is a magnificent specimen of baroque architecture. ' but suppose i made the first kind of statement while showing an overseas visitor around england, and found that it puzzled her considerably. why, she might ask, do you keep telling me the dates of the foundation of all these buildings? why this obsession with origins? in the society i live in, she might go on, we keep no record at all of such events: we classify our buildings instead according to whether they face north-west or south-east. in this sense, there is no possibility of a wholly disinterested statement. of course stating when a cathedral was built is reckoned to be more disinterested in our own culture than passing an opinion about its architecture, but one could also imagine situations in which the former statement would be more 'value-laden' than the latter. perhaps 'baroque' and 'magnificent' have come to be more or less synonymous, whereas only a stubborn rump of us cling to the belief that the date when a building was founded is significant, and my statement is taken as a coded way of signalling this partisanship. all of our descriptive statements move within an often invisible network of value-categories, and indeed without such catego ries we would have nothing to say to each other at all. it may well be that a liking for bananas is a merely private matter, though this is in fact questionable. a thorough analysis of my tastes in food would probably reveal how deeply relevant they are to certain formative experi ences in early childhood, to my relations with my parents and siblings and to a good many other cultural factors which are quite as social and 'non. subjective' as railway stations. this is even more true of that fundamental structure of beliefs and interests which i am born into as a member of a particular society, such as the belief that i should try to keep in good health, that differences of sexual role are rooted in human biology or that human beings are more important than crocodiles. we may disagree on this or that, but we can only do so because we share certain 'deep' ways of seeing and valuing which are bound up with our social life, and which could not be changed without transforming that life. if it will not do to see literature as an 'objective', descriptive category, neither will it do to say that literature is just what people whimsically choose to call literature. for there is nothing at all whimsical about such kinds of value-judgement: they have their roots in deeper structures of belief which are as apparently unshakeable as the empire state building. what we have uncovered so far, then, is not only that literature does not exist in the sense that insects do, and that the value-judgements by which it is constituted are historically variable, but that these value-judgements themselves have a close relation to social ideologies. they refer in the end not simply to private taste, but to the assumptions by which certain social groups exercise and maintain power over others. if this seems a far-fetched assertion, a matter of private prejudice, we may test it out by an account of the rise of 'literature' in england. in eighteenth-century england, the concept of literature was not confined as it sometimes is today to 'creative' or 'imaginative' writing. it meant the whole body of valued writing in society: philosophy, history, essays and letters as well as poems. what made a text 'literary' was not whether it was fictional the eighteenth century was in grave doubt about whether the new upstart form of the novel was literature at allbut whether it conformed to certain standards of 'polite letters'. the criteria of what counted as litera ture, in other words, were frankly ideological: writing which embodied the values and 'tastes' of a particular social class qualified as literature, whereas a street ballad, a popular romance and perhaps even the drama did not. at this historical point, then, the 'value-ladcnness' of the concept of literature was reasonably self-evident. of course a distinction between 'factual' and 'imaginative' writing had long been recognized: the word 'poetry' or 'poesy' had traditionally singled out fiction, and philip sidney had entered an eloquent plea for it in his apology for poetry. but by the time of the romantic period, literature was becoming virtually synonymous with the 'imaginative': to write about what did not exist was somehow more soul-stirring and valuable than to pen an account of birmingham or the circulation of the blood. the word 'imaginative' con tains an ambiguity suggestive of this attitude: it has a resonance of the descriptive term 'imaginary', meaning 'literally untrue', but is also of course an evaluative term, meaning 'visionary' or 'inventive'. since we ourselves are post-romantics, in the sense of being products of that epoch rather than confidently posterior to it, it is hard for us to grasp just what a curious historically particular idea this is. it would certainly have seemed so to most of the english writers whose 'imaginative vision' we now reverently elevate above the merely 'prosaic' discourse of those who can find nothing more dramatic to write about than the black death or the warsaw ghetto. indeed it is in the romantic period that the descriptive term 'prosaic' begins to acquire its negative sense of prosy, dull, uninspiring. if what does not exist is felt to be more attractive than what does, if poetry or the imagination is privileged over prose or 'hard fact', then it is a reasonable assumption that this says something significant about the kinds of society in which the romantics lived. but the visionary hopes and dynamic energies released by these revolutions, energies with which ro mantic writing is alive, enter into potentially tragic contradiction with the harsh realities of the new bourgeois regimes. in england, a crassly philistine utilitarianism is rapidly becoming the dominant ideology of the industrial middle class, fetishizing fact, reducing human relations to market exchanges and dismissing art as unprofitable ornamentation. the callous disciplines of early industrial capitalism uproot whole communities, convert human life into wage-slavery, enforce an alienating labour-process on the newly formed working class and understand nothing which cannot be transformed into a commodity on the open market. in the face of such forces, the privilege accorded by the romantics to the 'creative imagination' can be seen as considerably more than idle escapism. on the contrary, 'literature' now appears as one of the few enclaves in which the creative values expunged from the face of english society by industrial 'imaginative creation' can be capitalism can be celebrated and affirmed. offered as an image of non-alienated labour; the intuitive, transcendental scope of the poetic mind can provide a living criticism of those rationalist or empiricist ideologies enslaved to 'fact'. the literary work itself comes to be seen as a mysterious organic unity, in contrast to the fragmented individu alism of the capitalist marketplace: it is 'spontaneous' rather than rationally calculated, creative rather than mechanical. the word 'poetry', then, no longer refers simply to a technical mode of writing: it has deep social, political and philosophical implications, and at the sound of it the ruling class might quite literally reach for its gun. if the 'transcendental' nature of the imagination offered a challenge to an anaemic rationalism, it could also offer the writer a comfortingly absolute alternative to history itself. indeed such a detachment from history reflected the ro mantic writer's actual situation. art was becoming a commodity like any thing else, and the romantic artist little more than a minor commodity producer; for all his rhetorical claim to be 'representative' of humankind, to speak with the voice of the people and utter eternal verities, he existed more and more on the margins of a society which was not inclined to pay high wages to prophets. the finely passionate idealism of the romantics, then, was also idealist in a more philosophical sense of the word. deprived of any proper place within the social movements which might actually have trans formed industrial capitalism into a just society, the writer was increasingly driven back into the solitariness of his own creative mind. it is no accident that the period we are discussing sees the rise of modern 'aesthetics', or the philosophy of art. it is mainly from this era, in the work of kant, hegel, schiller, coleridge and others, that we inherit our contem porary ideas of the 'symbol' and 'aesthetic experience', of 'aesthetic har mony' and the unique nature of the artefact. previously men and women had written poems, staged plays or painted pictures for a variety of purposes, while others had read, watched or viewed them in a variety of ways. now these concrete, historically variable practices were being subsumed into some special, mysterious faculty known as the 'aesthetic', and a new breed of aestheticians sought to lay bare its inmost structures. it was not that such questions had not been raised before, but now they began to assume a new significance. the dynamic, spontaneous energies of social progress were to be fostered, but curbed of their potentially anarchic force by a restraining social order. the symbol fused together motion and stillness, turbulent content and organic form, mind and world. its material body was the medium of an absolute spiritual truth, one perceived by direct intuition rather than by any laborious process of critical analysis. in this sense the symbol brought such truths to bear on the mind in a way which brooked no question: either you saw it or you didn't. it was the keystone of an irrationalism, a forestalling of reasoned critical enquiry, which has been rampant in literary theory ever since. it was a unitary thing, and to dissect it to take it apart to see how it worked was almost as blasphemous as seeking to analyse the holy trinity. ifone were asked to provide a single explanation for the growth of english studies in the later nineteenth century, one could do worse than reply: 'the failure of religion'. by the mid-victorian period, this traditionally reliable, immensely powerful ideological form was in deep trouble. it was no longer winning the hearts and minds of the masses, and under the twin impacts of scientific discovery and social change its previous unquestioned domi nance was in danger of evaporating. this was particularly worrying for the victorian ruling class, because religion is for all kinds of reasons an extremely effective form of ideological control. like all successful ideolo gies, it works much less by explicit concepts or formulated doctrines than by image, symbol, habit, ritual and mythology. it is affective and experien tial, entwining itself with the deepest unconscious roots of the human subject; and any social ideology which is unable to engage with such deep seated a-rational fears and needs, as t. s. eliot knew, is unlikely to survive very long. religion, moreover, is capable of operatingat every social level: if there is a doctrinal inflection of it for the intellectual elite, there is also a pietistic brand of it for the masses. it provides an excellent social 'cement', encompassing pious peasant, enlightened middle-class liberal and theologi cal intellectual in a single organization. its ideological power lies in its capacity to 'materialize' beliefs as practices: religion is the sharing of the chalice and the blessing of the harvest, not just abstract argument about consubstantiation or hyperdulia. its ultimate truths, like those mediated by the literary symbol, are conveniently closed to rational demonstration, and in its victorian thus absolute in their claims. finally religion, at least forms, is a pacifying influence, fostering meekness, self-sacrifice and the contemplative inner life. it is no wonder that the victorian ruling class looked on the threatened dissolution of this ideological discourse with something less than equanimity. as religion progressively ceases to provide the social 'cement', affective values and basic mythologies by which a socially turbulent class-society can be welded to gether, 'english' is constructed as a subject to carry this ideological burden from the victorian period onwards. the key figure here is matthew arnold, always preternaturally sensitive to the needs of his social class, and engag ingly candid about being so. the urgent social need, as arnold recognizes, is to 'hellenize' or cultivate the philistine middle class, who have proved unable to underpin their political and economic power with a suitably rich and subtle ideology. this can be done by transfusing into them something of the traditional style of the aristocracy, who as arnold shrewdly perceives are ceasing to be the dominant class in england, but who have something of the ideological wherewithal to lend a hand to their middle-class masters. arnold is refreshingly unhypocritical: there is no feeble pretence that the education of the working class is to be conducted chiefly for their own benefit, or that his concern with their spiritual condition is, in one of his own most cherished terms, in the least 'disinterested'. in the even more disarm ingly candid words of a twentieth-century proponent of this view: 'deny to working-class children any common share in the immaterial, and presently they will grow into the men who demand with menaces a communism of the material. '8 if the masses are not thrown a few novels, they may react by throwing up a few barricades. literature was in several ways a suitable candidate for this ideological enterprise. as a liberal, 'humanizing' pursuit, it could provide a potent antidote to political bigotry and ideological extremism. since literature, as we know, deals in universal human values rather than in such historical trivia as civil wars, the oppression of women or the dispossession of the english peasantry, it could serve to place in cosmic perspective the petty demands of working people for decent living conditions or greater control over their own lives, and might even with luck come to render them oblivi ous of such issues in their high-minded contemplation of eternal truths and beauties. english, as a victorian handbook for english teachers put it, helps to 'promote sympathy and fellow feeling among all classes'; another victo rian writer speaks of literature as opening a 'serene and luminous region of truth where all may meet and expatiate in common', above 'the smoke and stir, the din and turmoil of man's lower life of care and business and debate'. it would communicate to them the moral riches of bourgeois civilization, impress upon them a reverence for middle-class achievements, and, since reading is an essentially solitary, con templative activity, curb in them any disruptive tendency to collective po litical action. it would give them a pride in their national language and literature: if scanty education and extensive hours of labour prevented them personally from producing a literary masterpiece, they could take pleasure in the thought that others of their own kind english people had done so. the people, according to a study of english literature written in 1891, 'need political culture, instruction, that is to say, in what pertains to their relation to the state, to their duties as citizens; and they need also to be impressed sentimentally by having the presentation in legend and history of heroic and patriotic examples brought vividly and attractively before them'. arnold himself had beliefs, of course, though like every body else he regarded his own beliefs as reasoned positions rather than ideological dogmas. even so, it was not the business ofliterature to commu nicate such beliefs directly to argue openly, for example, that private property is the bulwark of liberty. instead, literature should convey timeless truths, thus distracting the masses from their immediate commitments, nurturing in them a spirit of tolerance and generosity, and so ensuring the survival of private property. just as arnold attempted in literature and dogma and god and the bible to dissolve away the embarrassingly doctrinal bits of christianity into poetically suggestive sonorities, so the pill of middle-class ideology was to be sweetened by the sugar of literature. arnold, henry james and f. r. leavis are the major critical exponents. morality is no longer to be grasped as a formulated code or explicit ethical system: it is rather a sensitive preoccupation with the whole quality of life itself, with the oblique, nuanced particulars of human experience. some what rephrased, this can be taken as meaning that the old religious ideologies have lost their force, and that a more subtle communication of moral values" one which works by 'dramatic enactment' rather than rebarbative abstrac tion, is thus in order. since such values are nowhere more vividly drama tized than in literature, brought home to 'felt experience' with all the unquestionable reality of a blow on the head, literature becomes more than just a handmaiden of moral ideology: it ismoral ideology for the modern age, as the work of f. r. leavis was most graphically to evince. the working class was not the only oppressed layer of victorian society at whom 'english' was specifically beamed. english literature, reflected a royal commission witness in 1877, might be considered a suitable subject for 'women . . . and the secondand third-rate men who . . . become school masters. t the 'softening' and 'humanizing' effects of english, terms recur rently used by its early proponents, are within the existing ideological stereotypes of gender clearly feminine. the rise of english in england ran parallel to the gradual, grudging admission of women to the institutions of higher education; and since english was an untaxing sort of affair, concerned with the finer feelings rather than with the more virile topics of bona fide academic 'disciplines', it seemed a convenient sort of non-subject to palm off on the ladies, who were in any case excluded from science and the profes sions. sir arthur quiller couch, first professor of english at cambridge university, would open with the word 'gentlemen' lectures addressed to a hall filled largely with women. it took rather longer for english, a subject fit for women, workers and those wishing to impress the natives, to penetrate the bastions of ruling-class power in oxford and cambridge. english was an upstart, amateurish affair as academic subjects went, hardly able to compete on equal terms with the rigours of greats or philology; since every english gentleman read his own literature in his spare time anyway, what was the point of submitting it to systematic study? fierce rearguard actions were fought by both ancient universities against this distressingly dilettante subject: the definition of an academic subject was what could be examined, and since english was no more than idle gossip about literary taste it was difficult to know how to make it unpleasant enough to qualify as a proper academic pursuit. this, it might be said, is one of the few problems associated with the study of english which have since been effectively resolved. the frivolous contempt for his subject displayed by the first really 'literary' oxford professor, sir walter raleigh, has to be read to be believed. the only way in which english seemed likely to justify its existence in the ancient universities was by systematically mistak ing itself for the classics; but the classicists were hardly keen to have this pathetic parody of themselves around. is england's victory over germany meant a renewal of national pride, an upsurge of patriotism which could only aid english's cause; but at the same time the deep trauma of the war, its almost intolerable questioning of every previously held cultural assumption, gave rise to a 'spiritual hungering', as one contemporary commentator described it, for which poetry seemed to provide an answer. it is a chastening thought that we owe the university study of english, in part at least, to a meaningless massacre. the great war, with its carnage of ruling-class rhetoric, put paid to some of the more strident forms of chauvinism on which english had previously thrived: there could be few more walter raleighs after wilfred owen. in fashioning english into a serious discipline, these men and women blasted apart the assumptions of the pre-war upper-class generation. no subsequent movement within english studies has come near to recapturing the courage and radicalism of their stand. in the early 1920s it was desper ately unclear why english was worth studying at all; by the early 1930sit had become a question of why it was worth wasting your time on anything else. english was not only a subject worth studying, but the supremely civilizing pursuit, the spiritual essence of the social formation. far from constituting some amateur or impressionistic enterprise, english was an arena in which the most fundamental questions of human existence what it meant to be a person, to engage in significant relationship with others, to live from the vital centre of the most essential values were thrown into vivid relief and made the object of the most intensive scrutiny. scrutiny was the title of the critical journal launched in 1932 by the leavises, which has yet to be surpassed in its tenacious devotion to the moral centrality of english studies, their crucial relevance to the quality of social life as a whole. whatever the 'failure' or 'success' of scrutiny, however, one might argue the toss between the anti leavisian prejudice of the literary establishment and the waspishness of the scrutiny movement itself, the fact remains that english students in england today are 'leavisites' whether they know it or not, irremediably altered by that historic intervention. there is no more need to be a card-carrying leavisite today than there is to be a card-carrying copernican: that current has entered the bloodstream of english studies in england as copernicus reshaped our astronomical beliefs, has become a form of spontaneous critical wisdom as deep-seated as our conviction that the earth moves round the sun. that the 'leavis debate' is effectively dead is perhaps the major sign of scrutiny's victory. in literature, and perhaps in literature alone, a vital feel for the creative uses of language was still manifest, in contrast to the philistine devaluing of language and traditional culture blatantly appar ent in 'mass society'. the quality of a society's language was the most telling index of the quality of its personal and social life: a society which had ceased to value literature was one lethally closed to the impulses which had created and sustained the best of human civilization. in the civilized manners of eighteenth-century england, or in the 'natural', 'organic' agrarian society of the seventeenth century, one could discern a form of living sensibility without which modern industrial society would atrophy and die. to be a certain kind of english student in cambridge in the late 1920s and 1930s was to be caught up in this buoyant, polemical onslaught against the most trivializing features of industrial capitalism. it was rewarding to know that being an english student was not only valuable but the most important way of life one could imagine that one was contributing in one's own modest way to rolling back twentieth-century society in the direction of the 'organic' community of seventeenth-century england, that one moved at the most progressive tip of civilization itself. those who came up to cambridge humbly expecting to read a few poems and novels were quickly demystified: english was not just one discipline among many but the most central subject of all, immeasurably superior to law, science, politics, philosophy or history. these subjects, scrutiny grudgingly conceded, had their place; but it was a place to be assessed by the touchstone of literature, which was less an academic subject than a spiritual exploration coterminous with the fate of civilization itself. with breathtaking boldness, scrutiny redrew the map of english literature in ways from which criticism has never quite recovered. the main thoroughfares on this map ran through chaucer, shakespeare, jonson, the jacobeans and metaphysicals, bunyan, pope, samuel johnson, blake, wordsworth, keats, austen, george eliot, hopkins, henry james, joseph conrad, t. s. eliot and d. h. lawrence. this was 'english literature': spencer, dryden, restoration drama, defoe, fielding, richardson, sterne, shelley, byron, tennyson, browning, most of the victorian novelists, joyce, woolf and most writers after d. h. lawrence constituted a network of 'b' roads interspersed with a good few cul-de-sacs. dickens was first out and then in; 'english' included two and a half women, counting emily bronte as a marginal case; almost all of its authors were conservatives. i say 'survive', because apart from leavis's brief toying with 'some form of economic communism', there was never any serious consideration of actually trying to change such a society. it was less a matter of seeking to transform the mechanized society which gave birth to this withered culture than of seeking to withstand it. in this sense, one might claim, scrutiny had thrown in the towel from the start. the only form of change it contemplated was education: by implanting themselves in the educational institutions, the scrutineers hoped to develop a rich, organic sensibility in selected individu als here and there, who might then transmit this sensibility to others. in this faith in education, leavis was the true inheritor of matthew arnold. but since such individuals were bound to be few and far between, given the insidious effects of 'mass civilization', the only real hope was that an embat tled cultivated minority might keep the torch of culture burning in the contemporary waste land and pass it on, via their pupils, to posterity. 'mass' culture is not the inevitable product of 'industrial' society, but the offspring of a particular form of industrialism which organizes production for profit rather than for use, which concerns itself with what will sell rather than with what is valuable. there is no reason to assume that such a social order is unchangeable; but the changes necessary would go far beyond the sensitive reading of king lear. the whole scrutiny project was at once hair-raisingly radical and really rather absurd. as one commentator has shrewdly put it, the decline of the west was felt to be avertible by close reading. " was it really true that literature could roll back the deadening effects of industrial labour and the philistinism of the media? it was doubtless comforting to feel that by reading henry james one be longed to the moral vanguard of civilization itself; but what of all those people who did not read henry james, who had never even heard of james, and would no doubt go to their graves complacently ignorant that he had been and gone? these people certainly composed the overwhelming social majority; were they morally callous, humanly banal and imaginatively bank rupt? one was speaking perhaps of one's own parents and friends here, and so needed to be a little circumspect. many of these people seemed morally serious and sensitive enough: they showed no particular tendency to go around murdering, looting and plundering, and even if they did it seemed implausible to attribute this to the fact that they had not read henry james. the scrutiny case was inescapably elitist: it betrayed a profound ignorance and distrust of the capacities of those not fortunate enough to have read english at downing college. 'ordinary' people seemed acceptable if they were seventeenth-century cowherds or 'vital' australian bushmen. but there was another problem, too, more or less the reverse of this. for if not allof those who could not recognize an enjambement were nasty and brutish, not all of those who could were morally pure. many people were indeed deep in high culture, but it would transpire a decade or so after the birth of scrutiny that this had not prevented some of them from engaging in such activities as superintending the murder of jews in central europe. the strength of leavisian criticism was that. it was able to provide an answer, as to the question, why read literature? the sir walter raleigh was not, answer, in a nutshell, was that it made you a better person. few reasons could have been more persuasive than that. when the allied troops moved into the concentration camps some years after the founding of scrutiny, to arrest commandants who had whiled away their leisure hours with a volume of goethe, it appeared that someone had some explaining to do. it was possible to explore the 'great tradition' of the english novel and believe that in doing so you were addressing questions of fundamental value questions which were of vital relevance to the lives of men and women wasted in fruitless labour in the factories of industrial capitalism. but it was also conceivable that you were destructively cutting yourself off from such men and women, who might be a little slow to recognize how a poetic enjambement enacted a movement of physical balancing. the lower-middle-class origins of the architects of english are perhaps relevant here. nonconformist, provincial, hard-working and morally consci entious, the scrutineers had no difficulty in identifying for what it was the frivolous amateurism of the upper-class english gentlemen who filled the early chairs of literature at the ancient universities. these men were not their kind of men: they were not what the son of a shopkeeper or daughter of a draper would be especially inclined to respect, as a social elite who had excluded their own people from the ancient universities. but if the lower middle class has a deep animus against the effete aristocracy perched above it, it also works hard to discriminate itself from the working class set below it, a class into whose ranks it is always in danger of falling. scrutiny arose out of this social ambivalence: radical in respect of the literary-academic estab lishment, coterie-minded with regard to the mass of the people. its fierce concern with 'standards' challenged the patrician dilettantes who felt that walter savage landor was probably just as charming in his own way as john milton, at the same time as it posed searching tests for anyone trying to muscle in on the game. the gain was a resolute singleness of purpose, uncontaminated by wine-tasting triviality on the one hand and 'mass' banal ity on the other. the loss was a profoundly ingrown isolationism: scrutiny became a defensive elite which, like the romantics, viewed itself as 'central' while being in fact peripheral, believed itself to be the 'real' cambridge while the real cambridge was busy denying it academic posts, and perceived itself as the vanguard of civilization while nostalgically lauding the organic wholeness of exploited seventeenth-century farm labourers. the language of commercial society was abstract and anaemic: it had lost touch with the living roots of sensuous experience. in really 'english' writing, however, language 'concretely enacted' such felt experience: true english literature was verbally rich, complex, sensuous and particular, and the best poem, to caricature the case a little, was one which read aloud sounded rather like chewing an apple. the 'health' and 'vitality' of such language was the product of a 'sane' civilization: it embodied a creative wholeness which had been historically lost, and to read literature was thus to regain vital touch with the roots of one's own being. literature was in a sense an organic society all of its own: it was important because it was nothing less than a whole social ideology. the leavisian belief in 'essential englishness' its conviction that some kinds of english were more english than others was a kind of petty bourgeois version of the upper-class chauvinism which had helped to bring english to birth in the first place. such rampant jingoism was less in evi dence after 1918, as ex-servicemen and state-aided middle-class students began to infiltrate the public-school ethos of oxbridge, and 'englishness' was a more modest, home-spun alternative to it. english as a subject was in part the offshoot of a gradual shift in class tone within english culture: 'englishness' was less a matter of imperialist flag-waving than of country dancing; rural, populist and provincial rather than metropolitan and aristo cratic. yet if it excoriated the bland assumptions of a sir walter raleigh on one level, it was also in complicity with them on another. it was chauvinism modulated by a new social class, who with a little straining could see them selves as rooted in the 'english people' of john bunyan rather than in a snobbish ruling caste. the literary map was in fact already being drawn elsewhere, by a body of criticism which influenced leavis greatly. in 1915 t. s. eliot had come to london, son of an 'aristocratic' st louis family whose traditional role of cultural leadership was being eroded by the industrial middle class of their own nation. i" repelled like scrutiny by the spiritual barrenness of industrial capitalism, eliot had glimpsed an alternative in the life of the old american yet another candidate for the elusive organic society, where blood south and breeding still counted for something. culturally displaced and spiritu ally disinherited, eliot arrived in england, and in what has rightly been described as 'the most ambitious feat of cultural imperialism the century seems likely to produce', 19 began to carry out a wholesale salvage and demo lition job on its literary traditions. the metaphysical poets and jacobean dramatists were suddenly upgraded; milton and the romantics were rudely toppled; selected european products, including the french symbolists, were imported. what eliot was in fact assaulting was the whole ideology of middle-class liberalism, the official ruling ideology of industrial capitalist society. liber alism, romanticism, protestantism, economic individualism: all of these are the perverted dogmas of those expelled from the happy garden of the organic society, with nothing to fall back on but their own paltry individual resources. eliot's own solution is an extreme right-wing authoritarianism: men and women must sacrifice their petty 'personalities' and opinions to an impersonal order. in the sphere of literature, this impersonal order is the tradition. p like any other literary tradition, eliot's is in fact a highly selective affair: indeed its governing principle seems to be not so much which works of the past are eternally valuable, as which will help t. s. eliot to write his own poetry. this arbitrary construct, however, is then paradoxi cally imbued with the force of an absolute authority. the major works of literature form between them an ideal order, occasionally redefined by the entry of a new masterpiece. the existing classics within the cramped space of the tradition politely reshuffle their positions to make room for a new comer, and look different in the light of it; but since this newcomer must somehow have been in principle included in the tradition all along to have gained admission at all, its entry serves to confirm that tradition's central values. the tradition, in other words, can never be caught napping: it has somehow mysteriously foreseen the major works still unwritten, and though these works, once produced, will occasion a revaluation of the tradition itself, they will be effortlessly absorbed into its maw. a literary work can be valid only by existing in the tradition, as a christian can be saved only by living in god; all poetry may be literature but only some poetry is litera ture, depending on whether or not the tradition happens to flow through it. in the political sphere, eliot's advocacy of authority took various forms. he flirted with the quasi-fascistic french movement action franiaise, and made a few rather negative references to jews. after his conversion to christianity in the mid-1920s he advocated a largely rural society run by a few 'great families' and a small elite of theological intellectuals much like himself. most people in such a society would be christian, though since eliot had an extremely conservative estimate of most people's ability to believe anything at all, this religious faith would have to be largely uncon scious, lived out in the rhythm of the seasons. this panacea for the redemp tion of modern society was being offered to the world roughly at the time when hitler's troops were marching into poland. the advantage of a language closely wedded to experience, for eliot, was it enabled the poet to bypass the deadly abstractions of rationalist that thought and seize his readers by the 'cerebral cortex, the nervous system, and the digestive tracts'. " poetry was not to engage the reader's mind: it did not really matter what a poem actually meant, and eliot professed himself to be quite unperturbed by apparently outlandish interpretations of his own work. meaning was no more than a sop thrown to the reader to keep him distracted, while the poem went stealthily to work on him in more physical and unconscious ways. the erudite eliot, author of intellectually difficult poems, in fact betrayed all the contempt for the intellect of any right-wing irrationalist. he shrewdly perceived that the languages of middle-class lib eral rationalism were exhausted: nobody was much likely to be convinced by talk of 'progress' or 'reason' any more, not least when millions of corpses lay on the battlefields of europe. eliot's view that language had become stale and unprofitable in industrial society, unsuitable for poetry, had affinities with russian formalism; but it was also shared by ezra pound, t. e. hulme and the imagist movement. poetry had fallen foul of the romantics, become a mawkish, womanly affair full of gush and fine feeling. language had gone soft and lost its virility: it needed to be stiffened up again, made hard and stone-like, reconnected with the physical world. the ideal imagist poem would be a laconic three-line affair of gritty images, like an army officer's rapped-out command. emotions were messy and suspect, part of a clapped-out epoch of high-flown liberal individualist sentiment which must now yield to the dehumanized mechani cal world of modern society. for d. h. lawrence, emotions, 'personality' and the 'ego' were equally discredited, and must give way to the ruthlessly impersonal force of spontaneous-creative life. behind the critical stance, once again, was politics: middle-class liberalism was finished, and would be ousted by some version of that tougher, masculine discipline which pound was to discover in fascism. the scrutiny case, at least at first, did not take the road of extreme right wing reaction. on the contrary, it represented nothing less than the last ditch stand of liberal humanism, concerned, as eliot and pound were not, with the unique value of the individual and the creative realm of the inter personal. these values could be summarized as 'life', a word which scru tiny made a virtue out of not being able to define. if you asked for some reasoned theoretical statement of their case, you had thereby demonstrated that you were in the outer darkness: either you felt life or you did not. great literature was a literature reverently open to life, and what life was could be demonstrated by great literature. the case was circular, intuitive, and proof against all argument, reflecting the enclosed coterie of the leavisites themselves. it was not clear what side life put you on in the general strike, or whether celebrating its vibrant presence in poetry was compatible with endorsing mass unemployment. it is not clear how this procedure was more than just a more rigorous form of wine-tasting, given that what the literary impressionists might call 'blissful' you might call 'maturely robust'. if life seemed altogether too broad and nebulous a term, the critical techniques for detecting it seemed correspondingly too narrow. since practical criticism in itself threatened to become too pragmatic a pursuit for a movement con cerned with nothing less than the fate of civilization, the leavisites needed to underpin it with a 'metaphysic', and found one ready to hand in the work of d. h. lawrence. since life was not a theoretical system but a matter of particular intuitions, you could always take your stand on these in order to attack other people's systems; but since life was also as absolute a value as you could imagine, you could equally use it to lambast those utilitarians and empiricists who could see no further than their noses. like 'practical criticism' it meant detailed analytic interpretation, providing a valuable antidote to aestheticist chit-chat; but it also seemed to imply that every previous school of criticism had read only an average of three words per line. to call for close reading, in fact, is to do more than insist on due attentiveness to the text. it inescapably suggests an attention to thisrather than to something else: to the 'words on the page' rather than to the contexts which produced and sur round them. it implies a limiting as well as a focusing of concern a limiting badly needed by literary talk which would ramble comfortably from the texture of tennyson's language to the length of his beard. but in dispelling such anecdotal irrelevancies, 'close reading' also held at bay a good deal else: it encouraged the illusion that any piece of language, 'literary' or not, can be adequately studied or even understood in isolation. the brisk, bloodless quality of his prose contrasts suggestively with the tortuous intensity of a leavis. society is in crisis, richards argues, because historical change, and scientific discovery in par ticular, has outstripped and devalued the traditional mythologies by which men and women have lived. the delicate equipoise of the human psyche has therefore been dangerously disturbed; and since religion will no longer serve to retrim it, poetry must do the job instead. poetry, richards remarks with stunning off-handedness, 'is capable of saving us; it is a perfectly possible means of overcoming chaos' . 23 like arnold, he advances literature as a conscious ideology for reconstructing social order, and does so in the socially disruptive, economically decaying, politically unstable years which followed the great war. the american new criticism, which flourished from the late 1930s to the 1950s, was deeply marked by these doctrines. new criticism is generally taken to encompass the work of eliot, richards and perhaps also leavis and william empson, as well as a number of leading american literary critics, among them john crowe ransom, w. k. wimsatt, cleanth brooks, allen tate, monroe beardsley and r. p. blackmur. significantly, the american in the region movement had its roots in the economically backward south of traditional blood and breeding where the young t. s. eliot had gained an early glimpse of the organic society. in the period of american new criti cism, the south was in fact undergoing rapid industrialization, invaded by northern capitalist monopolies; but 'traditional' southern intellectuals like john crowe ransom, who gave new criticism its name, could still discover in it an 'aesthetic' alternative to the sterile scientific rationalism of the industrial north. spiritually displaced like t. s. eliot by the industrial invasion, ransom found refuge first in the so-called fugitives literary move ment of the 1920s, and then in the right-wing agrarian politics of the 1930s. the ideology of new criticism began to crystallize: scientific rationalism was ravaging the 'aesthetic life' of the old south, human experience was being stripped of its sensuous particularity, and poetry was a possible solu tion. the poetic response, unlike the scientific, respected the sensuous integrity of its object: it was not a matter of rational cognition but an affective affair which linked us to the 'world's body' in an essentially reli gious bond. through art, an alienated world could be restored to us in all its rich variousness. poetry, as an essentially contemplative mode, would spur us not to change the world but to reverence it for what it was, teach us to approach it with a disinterested humility. the literary text, for american new criticism as for i. a. richards, was therefore grasped in what might be called 'functionalist' terms: just as american functionalist sociology devel oped a 'conflict-free' model of society, in which every element 'adapted' to every other, so the poem abolished all friction, irregularity and contradiction in the symmetrical cooperation of its various features. 'coherence' and 'integration' were the keynotes; but if the poem was also to induce in the reader a definite ideological attitude to the world one, roughly, of contem this emphasis on internal coherence could not be plative acceptance pushed to the point where the poem was cut off from reality altogether, splendidly revolving in its own autonomous being. it was therefore neces sary to combine this stress on the text's internal unity with an insistence that, through such unity, the work 'corresponded' in some sense to reality itself. if the poem was really to become an object in itself, new criticism had to sever it from both author and reader. i. a. richards had naively assumed that the poem was no more than a transparent medium through which we could observe the poet's psychological processes: reading was just a matter of recreating in our own mind the mental condition of the author. indeed much traditional literary criticism had held this view in one form or another. great literature is the product of great men, and its value lies chiefly in allowing us intimate access to their souls. there are several problems with such a position. to begin with, it reduces all literature to a covert form of autobiography: we are not reading literary works as literary works, simply as second-hand ways of getting to know somebody. for another thing, such a view entails that literary works are indeed 'expressions' of an author's mind, which does not seem a particularly helpful way of discussing little red riding hood or some highly stylized courtly love lyric. new criticism, moreover, evolved in the years when literary criticism in north america was struggling to become 'professionalized', acceptable as a respectable academic discipline. its battery of critical instruments was a way of competing with the hard sciences on their own terms, in a society where such science was the dominant criterion of knowledge. having begun life as a humanistic supplement or alternative to technocratic society, the movement thus found itself reproducing such technocracy in its own methods. the rebel merged into the image of his master, and as the 1940s and 1950s drew on was fairly quickly coopted by the academic establishment. before long, new criticism seemed the most natural thing in the literary critical world; indeed it was difficult to imagine that there had ever been anything else. the long trek from nashville, tennessee, home of the fugitives, to the east coast ivy league universities had been accomplished. there were at least two good reasons why new criticism went down well in the academies. first, it provided a convenient pedagogical method of coping with a growing student population. " distributing a brief poem for students to be perceptive about was less cumbersome than launching a great novels of the world course. second, new criticism's view of the poem as a delicate equipoise of contending attitudes, a disinterested reconciliation of opposing impulses, proved deeply attractive to sceptical liberal intellectuals disoriented by the clashing dogmas of the cold war. reading poetry in the new critical way meant committing yourself to nothing: all that poetry taught you was 'disinterestedness', a serene, speculative, impeccably even handed rejection of anything in particular. it drove you less to oppose mccarthyism or further civil rights than to experience such pressures as merely partial, no doubt harmoniously balanced somewhere else in the world by their complementary opposites. it was, in other words, a recipe for political inertia, and thus for submission to the political status quo. the reader may have noticed that 'literature', in the work of the last few critics i have discussed, has imperceptibly slid over into 'poetry'. the new critics and i. a. richards are almost exclusively concerned with poems; t. s. eliot stretches to the drama but not to the novel; f. r. leavis deals with the novel but examines it under the rubric of 'dramatic poem' that is, as anything but the novel. most literary theories, in fact, unconsciously 'foreground' a particular literary genre, and derive their general pronounce ments from this; it would be interesting to trace this process through the history of literary theory, identifying the particular literary form which is being taken as a paradigm. in the case of modern literary theory, the shift into poetry is of particular significance. for poetry is of all literary genres the one most apparently sealed from history, the one where 'sensibility' may play in its purest, least socially tainted form. it would be difficult to see tristram shandy or war and peace as tightly organized structures of sym bolic ambivalence. whereas new criticism sunders the text from rational discourse and a social context, empson impudently insists on treating poetry as a species of 'ordinary' language capable of being rationally paraphrased, a type of utterance in continuity with our usual ways of speaking and acting. he is an unabashed 'intentionalist', reckoning into account what the author probably meant and interpreting this in the most generous, decent, english sort of way. far from existing as an opaquely enclosed object, the literary work for empson is open-ended: understanding it involves grasping the general contexts in which words are socially used, rather than simply tracing patterns of internal verbal coherence, and such contexts are always likely to be indeterminate. it is interesting to contrast empson's famous 'ambiguities' with new criti cism's 'paradox', 'irony' and 'ambivalence'. but the irony of empson, and of his favoured form of pastoral, are also signs of a deeper contradiction. they mark the dilemma of the liberal minded literary intellectual of the 1920s and 1930s, aware of the gross disparity between a now highly specialized form of critical intelligence and the 'universal' preoccupations of the literature on which it goes to work. such a baffled, ambiguous consciousness, aware of the clash between pursu ing ever finer poetic nuances and the economic depression, is able to resolve those commitments only by faith in a 'common reason' which may in fact beless common and more socially particular than it looks. pastoral is not exactly empson's organic society: it is the looseness and incongruity of the form, rather than any 'vital unity', which attracts him, its ironic juxtaposi tions of lords and peasants, the sophisticated and the simple. empson sees that the meanings of a literary text are always in some measure promiscuous, never reducible to a final interpretation; and in the opposition between his 'ambiguity' and new critical 'ambivalence' we find a kind of early pre-run of the debate between structuralists and post structuralists which we shall explore later. it has also been suggested that empson's concern for authorial intentions is in some ways reminiscent of the work of the german philosopher edmund husserl. 31 whether or not this is true, it provides a convenient transition to the next chapter. in 1918 europe lay in ruins, devastated by the worst war in history. in the wake of that catastrophe, a wave of social revolutions rolled across the the years around 1920 were to witness the berlin spartacus continent: uprising and the vienna general strike, the establishment of workers' soviets in munich and budapest, and mass factory occupations throughout italy. all of this insurgency was violently crushed; but the social order of european capitalism had been shaken to its roots by the carnage of the war and its turbulent political aftermath. the ideologies on which that order had customarily depended, the cultural values by which it ruled, were also in deep turmoil. science seemed to have dwindled to a sterile positivism, a myopic obsession with the categorizing of facts; philosophy appeared torn between such a positivism on the one hand, and an indefensible subjectivism on the other; forms of relativism and irrationalism were rampant, and art reflected this bewildering loss of bearings. such an attitude merely took the possibility of knowledge for granted, whereas it was this, precisely, which was in question. what then can we be clear about and certain of? although we cannot be sure of the independent existence of things, husserl argues, we can be certain of how they appear to us immediately in conscious ness, whether the actual thing we are experiencing is an illusion or not. objects can be regarded not as things in themselves but as things posited, or 'intended', by consciousness. all consciousness is consciousness of some thing: in thinking, i am aware that my thought is 'pointing towards' some object. the act of thinking and the object of thought are internally related, mutually dependent. my consciousness is not just a passive registration of the world, but actively constitutes or 'intends' it. to establish certainty, then, we must first of all ignore, or 'put in brackets', anything which is beyond our immediate experience; we must reduce the external world to the contents of our consciousness alone. this, however, is not enough to resolve our problems. for perhaps all we find, when we inspect the contents of our minds, is no more than a random flux of phenomena, a chaotic stream of consciousness, and we can hardly found certainty upon this. the kind of 'pure' phenomena with which husserl is concerned, however, are more than just random individual par ticulars. they are a system of universal essences, for phenomenology varies each object in imagination until it discovers what is invariable about it. what is presented to phenomenological knowledge is not just, say, the experience of jealousy or of the colour red, but the universal types or essences of these things, jealousy or redness as such. to grasp any phenomenon wholly and purely is to grasp what is essential and unchanging about it. the greek word for type is eidos; and husserl accordingly speaks ofhis method as effecting an 'eidetic' abstraction, along with its phenomenological reduction. phenomenology, by seizing what we could be experientially sure of, could furnish the basis on which genuinely reliable knowledge could be con structed. it could be a 'science of sciences', providing a method for the study of anything whatsoever: memory, matchboxes, mathematics. if offered itself as nothing less than a science of human consciousness human conscious ness conceived not just as the empirical experience of particular people, but as the very 'deep structures' of the mind itself. unlike the sciences, it asked not about this or that particular form of knowledge, but about the conditions which made any sort of knowledge possible in the first place. it was thus, like the philosophy of kant before it, a 'transcendental' mode of enquiry; and the human subject, or individual consciousness, which preoccupied it was a 'transcendental' subject. phenomenology examined not just what i hap pened to perceive when i looked at a particular rabbit, but the universal essence of rabbits and of the act of perceiving them. it should be obvious even from this brief account of phenomenology that it is a form of methodological idealism, seeking to explore an abstraction if called 'human consciousness' and a world of pure possibilities. but husserl rejected empiricism, psychologism and the positivism of the natural sciences, he also considered himself to be breaking with the classical idealism of a thinker like kant. kant had been unable to solve the problem of how the mind can really know objects outside it at all; phenomenology, in claiming that what is given in pure perception is the very essence of things, hoped to surmount this scepticism. it all seems a far cry from leavis and the organic society. but is it? after all, the return to 'things in themselves', the impatient dismissal of theories unrooted in 'concrete' life, is not so far from leavis's naively mimetic theory of poetic language as embodying the very stuff of reality itself. leavis and husserl both turn to the consolations of the concrete, of what can be known on the pulses, in a period of major ideological crisis; and this recourse to 'things themselves' involves in both cases a thoroughgoing irrationalism. for husserl, knowledge of phenomena is absolutely certain, or as he says 'apodictic', because it is intuitive: i can doubt such things no more than i can doubt a sharp tap on the skull. for leavis, certain forms of language are 'intuitively' right, vital and creative, and however much he conceived of criticism as a collaborative argument there was in the end no gainsaying this. for both men, moreover, what is intuited in the act of grasping the concrete phenomenon is something universal: the eidos for husserl, life for leavis. they do not, in other words, have to move beyond the security of the immediate sensation in order to develop a 'global' theory: the phenomena come ready equipped with one. but it is bound to be an authoritarian theory, since it depends wholly on intuition. phenomena for husserl do not need to be interpreted, constructed this way or that in reasoned argument. like certain literary judgements, they force themselves upon us 'irresistibly', to use a key leavisian word. it is not difficult to see the relation between such dogmatism one manifest throughout leavis's own career and a conserva tive contempt for rational analysis. finally, we may note how husserl's 'intentional' theory of consciousness suggests that 'being' and 'meaning' are always bound up with one another. there is no object without a subject, and no subject without an object. object and subject, for husserl as for the english philosopher f. h. bradley, who influenced t. s. if phenomenology secured a knowable world with one hand, it established the centrality of the human subject with the other. indeed it promised nothing less than a science of subjectivity itself. the world is what i posit or 'intend': it is to be grasped in relation to me, as a correlate of my conscious ness, and that consciousness is not just fallibly empirical but transcendental. this was a reassuring sort of thing to learn about oneself. the crass positiv ism of nineteenth-century science had threatened to rob the world of subjec tivity altogether, and neo-kantian philosophy had tamely followed suit; the course of european history from the later nineteenth century onwards ap peared to cast grave doubt on the traditional presumption that 'man' was in control of his destiny, that he was any longer the creative centre of his world. phenomenology, in reaction, restored the transcendental subject to its right ful throne. in the realm of literary criticism, phenomenology had some influence on the russian formalists. just as husserl 'bracketed off' the real object so as to attend to the act of knowing it, so poetry for the formalists bracketed the real object and focused instead on the way it was perceived. ' but the main critical debt to phenomenology is evident in the so-called geneva school of criticism, which flourished in particular in the 1940s and 1950s, and whose major luminaries were the belgian georges poulet, the swiss critics jean starobinski and jean rousset, and the frenchman jean-pierre richard. also associated with the school were emii staiger, professor of german at the university of zurich, and the early work of the american critic j. hillis miller. phenomenological criticism is an attempt to apply the phenomenological method to literary works. as with husserl's 'bracketing' of the real object, the actual historical context of the literary work, its author, conditions of production and readership are ignored; phenomenological criticism aims instead at a wholly 'immanent' reading of the text, totally unaffected by anything outside it. the text itself is reduced to a pure embodiment of the author's consciousness: all of its stylistic and semantic aspects are grasped as organic parts of a complex totality, of which the unifying essence is the author's mind. to know this mind, we must not refer to anything we but only to actually know of the author biographical criticism is banned those aspects of his or her consciousness which manifest themselves in the work itself. moreover, we are concerned with the 'deep structures' of this mind, which can be found in recurrent themes and patterns of imagery; and in grasping these we are grasping the way the writer 'lived' his world, the phenomenological relations between himself as subject and the world as object. it must purge itself of its own predilections, plunge itself empathetically into the 'world' of the work, and reproduce as exactly and unbiasedly as possible what it finds there. if it is tackling a christian poem, it is not concerned to pass value-judgements on this particular world-view, but to demonstrate what it felt like for the author to 'live' it. it is, in other words, a wholly uncritical, non-evaluative mode of analysis. criticism is not seen as a construction, an active interpretation of the work which will inevitably engage the critic's own interests and biases; it is a mere passive reception of the text, a pure transcription of its mental essences. a literary work is presumed to constitute an organic whole, and so indeed do all the works of a particular author; phenomenological criticism can thus move with aplomb between the most chronologically disparate, thematically different texts in its resolute hunt for unities. for phenomenological criticism, the language of a literary work is little more than an 'expression' of its inner meanings. this somewhat second hand view of language runs back to husserl himself. for there is really little place for language as such in husserlian phenomenology. husserl speaks of a purely private or internal sphere of experience; but such a sphere is in fact a fiction, since all experience involves language and language is ineradicably social. to claim that i am having a wholly private experience is meaningless: i would not be able to have an experience in the first place unless it took place in the terms of some language within which i could identify it. what supplies meaningfulness to my experience for husserl is not language but the act of perceiving particular phenomena as universals an act which is supposed to occur independently of language itself. for husserl, in other words, meaning is something which pre-dates language: language is no more than a secondary activity which gives names to meanings i somehow already possess. this idea of a meaningless solitary utterance untainted by the external world is a peculiarly fitting image of phenomenology as such. for all its claims to have retrieved the 'living world' of human action and experience from the arid clutches of traditional philosophy, phenomenology begins and ends as a head without a world. it promises to give a firm grounding for human knowledge, but can do so only at a massive cost: the sacrifice of human history itself. for surely human meanings are in a deep sense histori cal: they are not a question of intuiting the universal essence of what it is to be an onion, but a matter of changing, practical transactions between social individuals. despite its focus on reality as actually experienced, as lebenswelt rather than inert fact, its stance towards that world remains contemplative and unhistorical. we emerge as subjects from inside a reality which we can never fully objectify, which encompasses both 'subject' and 'object', which is inexhaustible in its meanings and which constitutes us quite as much as we constitute it. the world is not something to be dissolved d la husserl to mental images: it has a brute, recalcitrant being of its own which resists our projects, and we exist simply as part of it. husserl's enthroning of the transcendental ego is merely the latest phase of a rationalist enlighten ment philosophy for which 'man' imperiously stamps his own image on the world. heidegger, by contrast, will partly decentre the human subject from this imaginary position of dominance. human existence is a dialogue with the world, and the more reverent activity is to listen rather than to speak. human knowledge always departs from and moves within what heidegger calls 'pre-understanding'. before we have come to think systematically at all, we already share a host of tacit assumptions gleaned from our practical bound-upness with the world, and science or theory are never more than partial abstractions from these concrete concerns, as a map is an abstraction of a real landscape. understanding is not first of all a matter of isolatable 'cognition', a particular act i perform, but part of the very structure of human existence. for i live humanly only by constantly 'projecting' myself forwards, recognizing and realizing fresh possibilities of being; i am never purely identical with myself, so to speak, but a being always already thrown forwards in advance of myself. my existence is never something which i can grasp as a finished object, but always a question of fresh possibility, always problematic; and this is equivalent to saying that a human being is consti tuted by history, or time. if human existence is constituted by time, it is equally made up of lan guage. language for heidegger is not a mere instrument of communication, a secondary device for expressing 'ideas': it is the very dimension in which human life moves, that which brings the world to be in the first place. only where there is language is there 'world', in the distinctively human sense. heidegger does not think of language primarily in terms of what you or i might say: it has an existence of its own in which human beings come to participate, and only by participating in it do they come to be human at all. language always pre-exists the individual subject, as the very realm in which he or she unfolds; and it contains 'truth' less in the sense that it is an instrument for exchanging accurate information than in the sense that it is the place where reality 'uri-conceals'. itself, gives itself up to our contempla tion. the mistake of the western metaphysical tradition has been to see being as some kind of objective entity, and to separate it sharply from the subject; heidegger seeks rather to return to pre-socratic thought, before the dualism between subject and object opened up, and to regard being as somehow encompassing both. the result of this suggest ive insight, is an astonishing cringing before the mystery of being. enlightenment rationality, with its ruthlessly dominative, instrumental attitude towards nature, must be rejected for a humble listening to the stars, skies and forests, a listening which in the acid words of one english commentator bears all the marks of a 'stupefied peasant'. man must 'make way' for being by making himself wholly over to it: he must turn to the earth, the inexhaustible mother who is the primary fount of all meaning. heidegger, the black forest philosopher, is yet another romantic exponent of the 'organic society', though in his case the results of this doctrine were to be more sinister than in the case of leavis. what is valuable in that philosophy, among other things, is its insistence that theoretical knowledge always emerges from a context of practical social interests. heidegger's model of a knowable object is, significantly, a tool: we know the world not contemplatively, but as a system of interrelated things which, like a hammer, are 'to hand', elements in some practical project. knowing is deeply related to doing. but the other side of that peasant-like practicality is a contemplative mysticism: when the hammer breaks, when we cease to take it for granted, its familiarity is stripped from it and it yields up to us its authentic being. a broken hammer is more of a hammer than an unbroken one. heidegger shares with the formalists the belief that art is such a defamiliarization: when van gogh shows us a pair of peasant shoes he estranges them, allowing their profoundly authentic shoeness to shine forth. indeed for the later heidegger it is in art alone that such phenomenological truth is able to manifest itself, just as for leavis literature comes to stand in for a mode of being which modern society has supposedly lost. art, like language, is not to be seen as the expression of an individual subject: the subject is just the place or medium where the truth of the world speaks itself, and it is this truth which the reader of a poem must attentively hear. literary interpretation for heidegger is not grounded in human activity: it is not first of all something we do, but something we must let happen. we must open ourselves passively to the text, submitting ourselves to its mysteriously inexhaustible being, allowing ourselves to be interrogated by it. our posture before art, in other words, must have something of the servility which heidegger advocated for the german people before the fuhrer. the only alternative to the imperious reason of bourgeois industrial society, it would appear, is a slavish self-abnegation. this mayor may not be true; but it does not seem to have any immediate relevance to how i live 'historically' in the sense of being bound up with particular individuals, actual social relations and con crete institutions. all of this, from the olympian heights of heidegger's ponderously esoteric prose, looks very small beer indeed. 'true' history for heidegger is an inward, 'authentic' or 'existential' history a mastering of dread and nothingness, a resoluteness towards death, a 'gathering in' of my powers which operates in effect as a substitute for history in its more common and practical senses. as the hungarian critic georg lukacs put it, heidegger's famous 'historicity' really distinguishable from ahistoricity. in the end, then, heidegger fails to overturn the static, eternal truths of husser! and the western metaphysical tradition by historicizing them. all he does instead is set up a different kind of metaphysical entity dasein itself. his work represents a flight from history as much as an encounter with it; and the same can. be said of the fascism with which he flirted. fascism is a desperate, last-ditch attempt on the part of monopoly capitalism to abolish contradictions which have become intolerable; and it does so in part by offering a whole alternative history, a narrative of blood, soil, the 'authentic' race, the sublimity of death and self-abnegation, the reich that will endure for a thousand years. this is not to suggest that heidegger's philosophy as a whole is no more than a rationale for fascism; it is to suggest that it provided one imaginary solution to the crisis of modern history as fascism provided another, and that the two shared a number of features in common. can we hope to understand works which are culturally and his torically alien to us? is 'objective' understanding possible, or is all under standing relative to our own historical situation? there is, as we shall see, a good deal more at stake in these issues than 'literary interpretation' alone. for husserl, meaning was an 'intentional object'. by this he meant that it was neither reducible to the psychological acts of a speaker or listener, nor completely independent of such mental processes. meaning was not objec tive in the sense that an armchair is, but it was not simply subjective either. it was a kind of 'ideal' object, in the sense that it could be expressed in a number of different ways but still remain the same meaning. on this view, the meaning of a literary work is fixed once and for all: it is identical with whatever 'mental object' the author had in mind, or 'intended', at the time of writing. perhaps the reader would care to experiment here by looking up from the book for a moment and 'meaning' something silently in his or her head. what did you 'mean'? and was it different from the words in which you have just formulated the response? to believe that meaning consists of words plus a wordless act of willing or intending is rather like believing that every time i open the door 'on purpose' i make a silent act of willing while opening it. there are obvious problems with trying to determine what is going on in somebody's head and then claiming that this is the meaning of a piece of writing. for one thing, a great many things are likely to be going on in an author's head at the time of writing. hirsch accepts this, but does not consider that these are to be confused with 'verbal meaning'; to sustain his theory, however, he is forced to make a fairly drastic reduction of all that the author might have meant to what he calls meaning 'types', manageable categories of meaning into which the text may be narrowed, simplified and sifted by the critic. our interest in a text can thus only be in these broad typologies of meaning, from which all particularity has been carefully ban ished. the critic must seek to reconstruct what hirsch calls the 'intrinsic genre' of a text, by which he means, roughly, the general conventions and ways of seeing which would have governed the author's meanings at the time of writing. little more than this is likely to be available to us: it would doubtless be impossible to recover exactly what shakespeare meant by 'cream-fac'd loon', so we have to settle for what he might generally have had in mind. all of the particular details of a work are presumed to be governed by such generalities. whether this does justice to the detail, complexity and conflictive nature of literary works is another question. to secure the mean ing of a work for all time, rescuing it from the ravages of history, criticism has to police its potentially anarchic details, hemming them back with the compound of 'typical' meaning. its stance towards the text is authoritarian and juridical: anything which cannot be herded inside the enclosure of 'probable authorial meaning' is brusquely expelled, and everything remain ing within that enclosure is strictly subordinated to this single governing intention. the unalterable meaning of the sacred scripture has been pre served; what one does with it, how one uses it, becomes a merely secondary matter of 'significance'. interestingly, hirsch concedes that his own point of view is really quite arbitrary. there is nothing in the nature of the text itself which constrains a reader to construe it in accordance with authorial meaning; it is just that if we do not choose to respect the author's meaning then we have no 'norm' of interpretation, and risk opening the floodgates to critical anarchy. like most authoritarian regimes, that is to say, hirschian theory is quite unable rationally to justify its own ruling values. there is no more reason in principle why the author's meaning should be preferred than there is for preferring the reading offered by the critic with the shortest hair or the largest feet. hirsch's defence of authorial meaning resembles those defences of landed titles which begin by tracing their process of legal inheritance over the centuries, and end up by admitting that if you push that process back far enough the titles were gained by fighting someone else for them. even if critics could obtain access to an author's intention, would this securely ground the literary text in a determinate meaning? what if we asked for an account of the meaning of the author's intentions, and then for an account of that, and so on? security is possible here only if authorial mean ings are what hirsch takes them to be: pure, solid, 'self-identical' facts which can be unimpeachably used to anchor the work. but this is a highly dubious way of seeing any kind of meaning at all. meanings are not as stable and determinate as hirsch thinks, even authorial ones and the reason they are not is because, as he will not recognize, they are the products of language, which always has something slippery about it. it is difficult to know what it 'could be to have a 'pure' intention or express a 'pure' meaning; it is only because hirsch holds meaning apart from language that he is able to trust to such chimeras. but he pays no attention to the ways in which such reconstructing can only go on within his own historically conditioned frames of meaning and perception. indeed such 'historicism' is the very target of his polemic. like husserl, then, he offers a form of knowledge which is timeless and sublimely disinterested. that his own work is far from disinterested that he believes himself to be safeguarding the immutable meaning of literary works from certain contemporary ideologies is only one factor which might lead us to view such claims with suspicion. the target which hirsch has firmly in his sights is the hermeneutics of heidegger, gadamer and others. for him, the insistence of these thinkers that meaning is always historical opens the door to complete relativism. on this argument, a literary work can mean one thing on monday and another on friday. it is interesting to speculate why hirsch should find this possibil ity so fearful; but to stop the relativist rot he returns to husserl and argues that meaning is unchangeable because it is always the intentional act of an individual at some particular point in time. there is one fairly obvious sense in which this is false. if i say to you in certain circumstances, 'close the door! ' and when you have done so impatiently add, 'i meant of course open the window', you would be quite entitled to point out that the english words 'close the door' mean what they mean whatever i might have intended them to mean. this is not to say that one could not imagine contexts in which 'close the door' meant something entirely different from its usual meaning: it could be a metaphorical way of saying, 'don't negotiate any further'. the meaning of the sentence, like any other, is by no means immutably fixed: with enough ingenuity one could probably invent contexts in which it could mean a thousand different things. but if a gale is ripping through the room and i am wearing only a swimming costume, the meaning of the words would probably be situationally clear; and unless i had made a slip of the tongue or suffered some unaccountable lapse of attention it would be futile for me to claim that i had 'really' meant 'open the window'. this is one evident sense in which the meaning of my words is not determined by my private intentions in which i cannot just choose to make my words mean anything at all, as humpty-dumpty in alice mistakenly thought he could. hirsch would admit this in one sense but relegate it to the realm of 'significance'; for gadamer, this instability is part of the very character of the work itself. all interpretation is situational, shaped and constrained by the historically relative criteria of a particular culture; there is no possibility of knowing the literary text 'as it is'. it is this 'scepticism' which hirsch finds most unnerving in heideggerian hermeneutics, and against which he wages his rearguard action. for gadamer, all interpretation of a past work consists in a dialogue between past and present. confronted with such a work, we listen with wise heideggerian passivity to its unfamiliar voice, allowing it to question our present concerns; but what the work 'says' to us will in turn depend on the kind of questions which we are able to address to it, from our own vantage point in history. it will also depend on our ability to reconstruct the 'ques tion' to which the work itself is an 'answer', for the work is also a dialogue with its own history. all understanding is productive: it is always 'under standing otherwise', realizing new potential in the text, making a difference to it. the present is only ever understandable through the past, with which it forms a living continuity; and the past is always grasped from our own partial viewpoint within the present. the event of understanding comes about when our own 'horizon' of historical meanings and assumptions 'fuses' with the 'horizon' within which the work itself is placed. it is hard to see why hirsch should find all this so unnerving. on the contrary, it all seems considerably too smooth. gadamer can equably sur render himself and literature to the winds of history because these scattered leaves will always in the end come home and they will do so because beneath all history, silently spanning past, present and future, runs a unify ing essence known as 'tradition'. as with t. s. eliot, all 'valid' texts belong to this tradition, which both speaks through the work of the past that i am contemplating, and speaks through me in the act of 'valid' contemplation. past and present, subject and object, the alien and the intimate are thus securely coupled together by a being which encompasses them both. gadamer is not worried that our tacit cultural preconceptions or 'pre understandings' may prejudice the reception of the past literary work, since these pre-understandings come to us from the tradition itself, of which the literary work is a part. creative prejudices, as against ephemeral and distorting ones, are those which arise from the tradition and bring us into contact with it. the authority of the tradition itself, linked with our own strenuous self-reflection, will sort out which of our preconceptions are legitimate and which are not just as the historical distance between ourselves and a work of the past, far from creating an obstacle to true understanding, actually aids such cognition by stripping the work of all that was of merely passing significance about it. it cannot, in other words, come to terms with the problem of ideology with the fact that the unending 'dialogue' of human history is as often as not a monologue by the powerful to the powerless, or that if it is indeed a 'dia logue' then the partners men and women, for example hardly occupy equal positions. it refuses to recognize that discourse is always caught up with a power which may be by no means benign; and the discourse in which it most signally fails to recognize this fact is its own. hermeneutics, as we have seen, tends to concentrate on works of the past: the theoretical questions it asks arise mainly from this perspective. this is hardly surprising, given its scriptural beginnings, but it is also significant: it suggests that criticism's main role is to make sense of the classics. it would be difficult to imagine gadamer grappling with norman mailer. along with the assumption that works of this traditionalist emphasis goes another: literature form an 'organic' unity. the hermeneutical method seeks to fit each element of a text into a complete whole, in a process commonly known as the 'hermeneutical circle': individual features are intelligible in terms of the entire context, and the entire context becomes intelligible through the individual features. hermeneutics does not generally consider the possibil ity that literary works may be diffuse, incomplete and internally contradic tory, though there are many reasons to assume that they are. ? it is worth noting that e. d. one reason why the latter solution seems unlikely is that the question is a little colloquial for a voice from the sky, and we might know that updike is in general a realist writer who does not usually go in for such devices; but a writer's texts do not necessarily form a consistent whole and it may be unwise to lean on this assumption too heavily. it is unlikely on realist grounds that the ques tion is asked by a chorus of people speaking in unison, and slightly unlikely that it is asked by somebody other than piet or angela hanema, since we learn the next moment that they are undressing, perhaps speculate that they are a' married couple, and know that married couples, in our suburb of birmingham at least, do not make a practice of undressing together before third parties, whatever they might do individually. we have probably already made a whole set of inferences as we read these sentences. we may infer, for example, that the 'couple' referred to is a man and woman, though there is nothing so far to tell us that they are not two women or two tiger cubs. we assume that whoever poses the question cannot mind-read, as then there would be no need to ask. we may suspect that the questioner values the judgement of the addressee, though there is not sufficient context as yet for us to judge that the question is not taunting or aggressive. the phrase 'the hanemas', we imagine, is probably in gram matical apposition to the phrase 'piet and angela', to indicate that this is their surname, which provides a significant piece of evidence for their being married. but we cannot rule out the possibility that there is some group of people called the hanemas in addition to piet and angela, perhaps a whole tribe of them, and that they are all undressing together in some immense hall. we have assumed, however, that they are undressing in sight of each other, whereas nothing has yet told us that the question is not shouted from one bedroom or beach-hut to another. perhaps piet and angela are small chil dren, though the relative sophistication of the question makes this unlikely. most readers will by now probably have assumed that piet and angela hanema are a married couple undressing together in their bedroom after some event, perhaps a party, at which a new married couple was present, but none of this is actually said. the fact that these are the first two sentences of the novel means, of course, that many of these questions will be answered for us as we read on. but the process of speculating and inferring to which we are driven by our ignorance here is simply a more intense and dramatic example of what we do all the time when reading. as we read on we shall encounter many more problems, which can be solved only by making further assumptions. we will be given the kinds of facts which are withheld from us in these sentences, but we will still have to construct questionable interpretations of them. reading the opening of updike's novel involves us in a surprising amount of complex, largely unconscious labour: although we rarely notice it, we are all the time engaged in constructing hypotheses about the meaning of the text. the reader makes implicit connections, fills in gaps, draws inferences and tests out hunches; and to do this means drawing on a tacit knowledge of the world in general and ofliterary conventions in particular. the text itself is really no more than a series of 'cues' to the reader, invitations to construct a piece of language into meaning. in the terminology of reception theory, the reader 'concretizes' the literary work, which is in itself no more than a chain of organized black marks on a page. without this continuous active participation on the reader's part, there would be no literary work at all. however solid it may seem, any work for reception theory is actually made up of 'gaps', just as tables are for modern physics the gap, for instance, between the first and second sentences of couples, where the reader must supply a missing connection. the work is full of 'indeterminacies', elements which depend for their effect upon the reader's interpretation, and which can be interpreted in a number of different, perhaps mutually conflicting ways. the paradox of this is that the more information the work provides, the more indeterminate it becomes. the process of reading, for reception theory, is always a dynamic one, a complex movement and unfolding through time. the literary work itself exists merely as what the polish theorist roman ingarden calls a set of 'schemata' or general directions, which the reader must actualize. to do this, the reader will bring to the work certain 'pre-understandings', a dim context of beliefs and expectations within which the work's various features will be assessed. as the reading process proceeds, however, these expecta tions will themselves be modified by what we learn, and the hermeneutical circle moving from part to whole and back to part will begin to revolve. striving to construct a coherent sense from the text, the reader will select and organize its elements into consistent wholes, excluding some and foregrounding others, 'concretizing' certain items in certain ways; he or she will try to hold different perspectives within the work together, or shift from perspective to perspective in order to build up an integrated 'illusion'. what we have learnt on page one will fade and become 'foreshortened' in memory, perhaps to be radically qualified by what we learn later. reading is not a straightforward linear movement, a merely cumulative affair: our initial speculations generate a frame of reference within which to interpret what comes next, but what comes next may retrospectively transform our original understanding, highlighting some features of it and backgrounding others. as we read on we shed assumptions, revise beliefs, make more and more complex inferences and anticipations; each sentence opens up a horizon which is confirmed, challenged or undermined by the next. we read back wards and forwards simultaneously, predicting and recollecting, perhaps aware of other possible realizations of the text which our reading has neg ated. moreover, all of this complicated activity is carried out on many levels at once, for the text has 'backgrounds' and 'foregrounds', different narrative viewpoints, alternative layers of meaning between which we are constantly moving. i need to know, for example, that these words belong to what might be called a 'code of reference' that the sign is not just a decorative piece of language there to entertain travellers, but is to be taken as referring to the behaviour of actual dogs and passengers on actual escalators. i must mobilize my general social knowledge to recognize that the sign has been placed there by the authorities, that these authorities have the power to penalize offenders, that i as a member of the public am being implicitly addressed, none of which is evident in the words themselves. i have to rely, in other words, upon certain social codes and contexts to understand the notice properly. but i also need to bring these into interaction with certain codes or conven tions of reading conventions which tell me that by 'the escalator' is meant this escalator and not one in paraguay, that 'must be carried' means 'must be carried now', and so on. i understand the notice, then, by interpreting it in terms of certain codes which seem appropriate; but for iser this is not all of what happens in reading literature. if there were a perfect 'fit' between the codes' which governed literary works and the codes we applied to interpret them, all literature would be as uninspiring as the london underground sign. the most effective literary work for iser is one which forces the reader into a new critical awareness of his or her customary codes and expectations. the work interrogates and transforms the implicit beliefs we bring to it, 'disconfirms' our routine habits of perception and so forces us to acknowledge them for the first time for what they are. rather than merely reinforce our given . perceptions, the valuable work of literature violates or transgresses these normative ways of seeing, and so teaches us new codes for understanding. there is a parallel here with russian formalism: in the act of reading, our conventional assumptions are 'defamiliarized', objectified to the point where we can criticize and so revise them. iser's reception theory, in fact, is based on a liberal humanist ideology: a belief that in reading we should be flexible and open-minded, prepared to put our beliefs into question and allow them to be transformed. behind this case lies the influence of gadamerian hermeneutics, with its trust in that enriched self-knowledge which springs from an encounter with the unfamil iar. but iser's liberal humanism, like most such doctrines, is less liberal than it looks at first sight. he writes that a reader with strong ideological commit ments is likely to be an inadequate one, since he or she is less likely to be open to the transformative power ofliterary works. what this implies is that in order to undergo transformation at the hands of the text, we must only hold our beliefs fairly provisionally in the first place. the only good reader would already have to be a ,liberal: the act of reading produces a kind of human subject which it also presupposes. iser would seem to avoid this vicious circle by stressing the power of literature to disrupt and transfigure the reader's codes; but this itself, as i have argued, silently assumes exactly the kind of 'given' reader that it hopes to generate through reading. the closedness of the circuit between reader and work reflects the closedness of the academic institution of literature, to which only certain kinds of texts and readers need apply. but this generosity is qualified by one rigorous instruction: the reader must construct the text so as to render it internally consistent. iser's model of reading is fundamentally the parts must be made to adapt coherently to the whole. functionalist: behind this arbitrary prejudice, in fact, lies the influence of gestalt psychol ogy, with its concern to integrate discrete perceptions into an intelligible whole. it is true that this prejudice runs so deep in modern critics that it is difficult to see it as just that a doctrinal predilection, which is no less arguable and contentious than any other. there is absolutely no need to suppose that works of literature either do or should constitute harmonious wholes, and many suggestive frictions and collisions of meaning must be blandly 'processed' by literary criticism to induce them to do so. iser sees that ingarden is a good deal too 'organicist' in his views of the text, and appreciates modernist, multiple works partly because they make us more self-conscious about the labour of interpreting them. textual indeterminacies just spur us on to the act of abolishing them, in iser's revealingly replacing them with a stable meaning. they must, authoritarian term, be 'normalized' tamed and subdued to some firm structure of sense. the reader, it would seem, is engaged in fighting the text as much as interpreting it, struggling to pin down its anarchic 'polysemantic' potential within some manageable framework. iser speaks quite openly of 'reducing' this polysemantic potential to some kind of order a curious way, one might have thought, for a 'pluralist' critic to speak. unless this is done, the unified reading subject will be jeopardized, rendered incapable of re turning to itself as a well-balanced entity in the 'self-correcting' therapy of reading. caught up in this exuberant dance of language, delighting in the textures of words themselves, the reader knows less the purposive pleasures of building a coherent system, binding textual elements masterfully together to shore up a unitary self, than the masochistic thrills of feeling that self shattered and dispersed through the tangled webs of the work itself. reading is less like a laboratory than a boudoir. far from returning the reader to himself, in some final recuperation of the selfhood which the act of reading has thrown into question, the modernist text explodes his or her secure cultural identity, in ajouissance which for barthes is both readerly bliss and sexual orgasm. barthes's theory is not, as the reader might have suspected, without its problems. there is something a little disturbing about this self-indulgent avant-garde hedonism in a world where others lack not only books but food. if iser offers us a grimly 'normative' model which reins in the unbounded potential of language, barthes presents us with a private, asocial, essentially anarchic experience which is perhaps no more than the flip-side of the first. both critics betray a liberal distaste for systematic thought; both in their different ways ignore the position of the reader in history. for readers do not of course encounter texts in a void: all readers are socially and historically positioned, and how they interpret literary works will be deeply shaped by this fact. iser is aware of the social dimension of reading, but chooses to concentrate largely on its 'aesthetic' aspects; a more historically-minded member of the school of constance is hans robert jauss, who seeks in gadamerian fashion to situate a literary work within its historical 'horizon', the context of cultural meanings within which it was produced, and then explores the shifting relations between this and the changing 'horizons' of its historical readers. the aim of this work is to produce a new kind of literary one centred not on authors, influences and literary trends, but on history literature as defined and interpreted by its various moments of historical 'reception'. it is not that literary works themselves remain constant, while interpretations of them change: texts and literary traditions are themselves actively altered according to the various historical 'horizons' within which they are received. 'consumption', in literary as in any other kind of production, is part of the process of production itself. if a novel opens with the sentence 'jack staggered red-nosed out of the pub', it already implies a reader who understands fairly advanced english, knows what a pub is and has cultural knowledge of the connection between alcohol and facial inflam mation. it is not just that a writer 'needs an audience': the language he uses already implies one range of possible audiences rather than another, and this is not a matter in which he necessarily has much choice. a writer may not have in mind a particular kind of reader at all, he may be superbly indifferent to who reads his work, but a certain kind of reader is already included within the very act of writing itself, as an internal structure of the text. even when i talk to myself, my utterances would not be utterances at all unless they, rather than i, anticipated a potential listener. sartre's study, then, sets out to pose the question 'for whom does one write? ', but in an historical rather than 'existential' perspective. it traces the destiny of the french writer from the seventeenth century, where the 'classical' style signalled a settled con tract or shared framework of assumptions between author and audience, to the ingrown self-consciousness of a nineteenth-century literature ineluct ably addressed to a bourgeoisie it despised. it ends with the dilemma of the contemporary 'committed' writer, who can address his work neither to the bourgeoisie, the working class, nor some myth of 'man in general'. reception theory of the jauss and iser kind. seems to raise a pressing epistemological problem. if one considers the 'text in itself' as a kind of skeleton, a set of 'schemata' waiting to be concretized in various ways by various readers, how can one discuss these schemata at all without having already concretized them? in speaking of the 'text itself', measuring it as a norm against particular interpretations of it, is one ever dealing with any thing more than one's own concretization? is the critic claiming some god like knowledge of the 'text in itself', a knowledge denied to the mere reader who has to make do with his or her inevitably partial construction of the text? it is a version, in other words, of the old problem of how one can know the light in the refrigerator is off when the door is closed. roman ingarden considers this difficulty but can provide no adequate solution to it; iser permits the reader a fair degree of freedom, but we are not free simply to interpret as we wish. not all reception theorists find 'this an embarrassment. the american critic stanley fish is quite happy to accept that, when you get down to it, there is no 'objective' work of literature there on the seminar table at all, bleak house is just all the assorted accounts of the novel that have been or will be given. the true writer is the reader: dissatisfied with mere iserian co partnership in the literary enterprise, the readers have now overthrown the bosses and installed themselves in power. for fish, reading is not a matter of discovering what the text means, but a process ofexperiencing what it does to you. his notion of language is pragmatist: a linguistic inversion, for example, will perhaps generate in us a feeling of surprise or disorientation, and criticism is no more than an account of the reader's developing re sponses to the succession of words on the page, what the text 'does' to us, however, is actually a matter of what we do to it, a question of interpretation; the object of critical attention is the structure of the reader's experience, not any 'objective' structure to be found in the work itself. everything in the text its grammar, meanings, formal units is a product of interpretation, in no sense 'factually' given; and this raises the intriguing question of what it is that fish believes he is interpreting when he reads. his refreshingly candid answer to this question is that he does not know; but neither, he thinks, does anybody else. fish is in fact careful to guard against the hermeneutical anarchy to which his theory appears to lead. to avoid dissolving the text into a thousand competing readings, he appeals to certain 'interpretative strategies' which readers have in common, and which will govern their personal responses. not any old reading response will do: the readers in question are 'informed or at-home' readers bred in the academic institutions, whose responses are thus unlikely to prove too wildly divergent from each other to forestall all reasoned debate. he is, however, insistent that there is nothing whatsoever 'in' the work itself that the whole idea of meaning being somehow 'im manent' in the text's language, awaiting its release by the readers' inter illusion. it is to this illusion, he considers, pretation, that wolfgang iser has fallen prey. there are no 'brute' facts, independent of human meanings; there are no facts that we do not know about. but this is not what 'given' necessarily or even usually means: few philosophers of science would nowadays deny that the data in the laboratory are the product of interpretation, they are not interpretations in the sense that the darwinian theory of evolution is. there is a difference between scientific hypotheses and scientific data, though both are indubitably 'interpretations', and the uncrossable gulf which much tra ditional philosophy of science has imagined between them is certainly an illusion. " you can say that perceiving eleven black marks as the word 'night ingale' is an interpretation, or that perceiving something as black or eleven or a word is an interpretation, and you would be right; but if in most circumstances you read those marks to mean 'nightgown' you would be wrong. an interpretation on which everyone is likely to agree is one way of defining a fact. the fact that these marks denote a certain kind of bird is quite arbitrary, a matter of linguistic and historical convention. if the english language had developed differently, they might not; or there may be some language un known to me in which they denote 'dichotomous'. there may be some culture which would not perceive these marks as imprints at all, as 'marks' in our sense, but see them as bits of black immanent in the white paper which have somehow emerged. this culture may also have a different counting-system from ours and reckon them not as eleven but as three plus an indefinite number. in its form of script, there may well be no distinction between their words for 'nightingale' and 'nightgown'. and so on: there is nothing divinely given or immutably fixed about language, as the fact that the english word 'nightingale' has had more meanings than one in its time would suggest. the claim that we can make a literary text mean whatever we like is in one sense quite justified. what after all is there to stop us? there is literally no end to the number of contexts we might invent for its words in order to make them signify differently. in another sense, the idea is a simple fantasy bred in the minds of those who have spent too long in the classroom. for such texts belong to language as a whole, have intricate relations to other linguis tic practices, however much they might also subvert and violate them; and language is not in fact something we are free to do what we like with. if i cannot read the word 'nightingale' without imagining how blissful it would be to retreat from urban society to the solace of nature, then the word has a certain power for me, or over me, which does not magically evaporate when i encounter it in a poem. nevertheless, interpreting a poem is in an important sense freer than interpreting a london underground notice. it is freer because in the latter case the language is part of a practical situation which tends to rule out certain readings of the text and legitimate others. this, as we have seen, is by no means an absolute constraint, but it is a significant one. in the case of literary works, there is also sometimes a practical situation which excludes certain readings and licenses others, known as the teacher. it is the academic institution, the stock of socially legitimated ways of reading works, which operates as a constraint. such licensed ways of reading are never of course 'natural', and never simply academic either: they relate to dominant forms of valuation and interpretation in a society as a whole. they are still active when i read a popular novel on a train, not just a poem in a university class. i began this book by challenging the idea that 'literature' was an unchanging object. i also argued that literary values are a good deal less guaranteed than people sometimes think. now we have seen that the literary work itself is much less easy to nail down than we often assume. one nail which can be driven through it to give it a fixed meaning is that of authorial intention: we have seen some of the problems of this tactic in discussing e. d. hirsch. another nail is fish's appeal to a shared 'interpretative strategy', a kind of common competence which readers, at least academic ones, are likely to have. that there is an academic institution which powerfully determines what readings are generally permissible is certainly true; and the 'literary institution' includes publishers, literary editors and reviewers as well as academia. but within this institution there can be a struggle of interpreta tions, which fish's model would not seem to account for a struggle not just between this reading of holderlin and that, but one waged around the categories, conventions and strategies of interpretation itself. few teachers or reviewers are likely to penalize an account of holderlin or beckett becasue it differs from their own. rather more of them, however, might penalize such an account because it seemed to them 'non-literary' because it transgressed the accepted boundaries and procedures of 'literary criticism'. literary criticism does not usually dictate any particular reading as long as it is 'literary critical'; and what counts as literary criticism is determined by the literary institution. it is thus that the liberalism of the literary institution, like wolfgang iser's, is in general blind to its own constitutive limits. we left american literary theory at the end of the introduction in the grip of new criticism, honing its increasingly sophisticated techniques and fighting a rearguard action against modern science and industrialism. but as north american society developed over the 1950s, growing more rigidly scientistic and managerial in its modes of thought, a more ambitious form of critical technocracy seemed demanded. new criticism had done its job well, but it was in a sense too modest and particularist to qualify as a hard-nosed academic discipline. in its obsessive concentration on the isolated literary text, its delicate nurturings of sensibility, it had tended to leave aside the broader, more structural aspects of literature. what had happened to literary history? what was needed was a literary theory which, while preserving the formalist bent of new criticism, its dogged attention to literature as aesthetic object rather than social practice, would make something a good deal more systematic and 'scientific' out of all this. a theory of literary 'modes' could be outlined, whereby in myth the hero is superior in kind to others, in romance superior in degree, in the 'high mimetic' modes of tragedy and epic superior in degree to others but not to his environment, in the 'low mimetic' modes of comedy and realism equal to the rest of us, and in satire and irony inferior. tragedy and comedy can be subdivided into high mimetic, low mimetic and ironic; tragedy is about human isolation, comedy about human integration. three recurrent patterns of symbolism the apocalyptic, demonic and are identified. the whole system can then be put into motion as analogical a cyclical theory of literary history: literature . passesfrom myth to irony and then reverts to myth, and in 1957 we were evidently somewhere in the ironic phase with signs of an impending return to the mythic. to establish his literary system, of which the above is only a partial account, frye must first of all clear value-judgements out of the way, since these are merely subjective noises. when we analyse literature we are speak ing of literature; when we evaluate it we are speaking of ourselves. the system must also expel any history other than literary history: literary works are made out of other literary works, not out of any material external to the literary system itself. the advantage of frye's theory, then, is that it keeps literature untainted by history in new critical fashion, viewing it as an enclosed ecological recycling of texts, but unlike new criticism finds in literature a substitute history, with all the global span and collective struc tures of history itself. the modes and myths of literature are transhistorical, collapsing history to sameness or a set of repetitive variations on the same themes. for the system to survive it must be kept rigorously closed: nothing external can be allowed to infiltrate it lest its categories are deranged. frye's work emphasizes as it does the utopian root of literature because it is marked by a deep fear ofthe actual social world, a distaste for history itself. in literature,. and in literature alone, one can shake off the sordid 'externali ties' of referential language and discover a spiritual home. the mythoiof the theory are, significantly, pre-urban images of the natural cycles, nostalgic memories of a history before industrialism. actual history is for frye bond age and determinism, and literature remains the one place where we can be free. it is worth asking what kind of history we have been living through for this theory to be even remotely convincing. the beauty of the approach is that it deftly combines an extreme aestheticism with an efficiently classifying 'scientificity', and so maintains literature as an imaginary alternative to modern society while rendering criticism respectable in that society's terms. it displays an iconoclastic briskness towards literary waffle, dropping each work into its appointed mythological slot with computerized efficiency, but blends this with the most romantic of yearnings. there is a loose sense in which northrop frye's work can be described as 'structuralist', and it is significantly contemporary with the growth of 'clas sical' structuralism in europe. structuralism, as the term suggests, is con cerned with structures, and more particularly with examining the general laws by which they work. it also like frye tends to reduce individual phe nomena to mere instances of such laws. but structuralism proper contains a distinctive doctrine which is not to be found in frye: the belief that the individual units of any system have meaning only by virtue of their relations to one another. this does not follow from a simple belief that you should look at things 'structurally'. you can examine a poem as a 'structure' while still treating each of its items as more or less meaningful in itself. perhaps the poem contains one image about the sun and another about the moon, and you are interested in how these two images fit together to form a structure. let me try to illustrate this by a simple example. suppose we are analys ing a story in which a boy leaves home after quarrelling with his father, sets out on a walk through the forest in the heat of the day and falls down a deep pit. the father comes out in search of his son, peers down the pit, but is unable to see him because of the darkness. at that moment the sun has risen to a point directly overhead, illuminates the pit's depths with its rays and allows the father to rescue his child. after a joyous reconciliation, they return home together. you could replace father and son, pit and sun, with entirely different elements mother and daughter, bird and mole and still have the same story. as long as the structure of relations between the units is preserved, it does not matter which items you select. this is not the case with the psychoanalytical or humanist readings of the tale, which depend on these items having a certain intrinsic significance, to understand which we have to resort to our knowledge of the world outside the text. of course there is a sense in which the sun is high and pits are low anyway, and to that extent what is chosen as 'content' does matter; but if we took a narrative structure in which what was required was the symbolic role of 'mediator' between two items, the mediator could be anything from a grasshopper to a waterfall. the relations between the various items of the story may be ones of parallelism, opposition, inversion, equivalence and so on; and as long as this structure of internal relations remains intact, the individual units are re placeable. three other points may be noted about the method. first, it does not matter to structuralism that this story is hardly an example of great literature. the method is quite indifferent to the cultural value of its object: anything from war and peace to the war cry will do. the method is analytical, not evaluative. second, structuralism is a calculated affront to common sense. it refuses the 'obvious' meaning of the story and seeks instead to isolate certain 'deep' structures within it, which are not apparent on the surface. it does not take the text at face value, but 'displaces' it into a quite different kind of object. third, if the particular contents of the text are replaceable, there is a sense in which one can say that the 'content' of the narrative is its structure. saussure's linguistic views influenced the russian formalists, although formalism is not itself exactly a structuralism. it views literary texts 'structurally', and suspends attention to the referent to examine the sign itself, but it is not particularly concerned with meaning as differential or, in much of its work, with the 'deep' laws and structures underlying literary texts. it was one of the russian formalists, however the linguist roman jakobson who was to provide the major link between formalism and modern-day structuralism. jakobson was leader of the moscow linguistic circle, a formalist group founded in 1915, and in 1920 migrated to prague to become one of the major theoreticians of czech structuralism. the prague linguistic circle was founded in 1926, and survived until the outbreak of the second world war. jakobson later migrated once more, this time to the united states, where he encountered the french anthropologist claude levi-strauss during the second world war, an intellectual relationship out of which much of modern structuralism was to develop. jakobson's influence can be detected everywhere within. formalism, czech structuralism and modern linguistics. what he contributed in par ticular to poetics, which he regarded as part of the field of linguistics, was the idea that the 'poetic' consisted above all in language's being placed in a certain kind of self-conscious relationship to itself. the poetic functioning of language 'promotes the palpability of signs', draws attention to their material qualities rather than simply using them as counters in communica tion. in the 'poetic', the sign is dislocated from its object: the usual relation between sign and referent is disturbed, which allows the sign a certain independence as an object of value in itself. all communication for jakobson involves six elements: an addresser, an addressee, a message passed between them, a shared code which makes that message intelligible, a 'contact' or physical medium of communication, and a 'context' to which the message refers. jakobson also makes much of a distinction implicit in saussure between the metaphorical and the metonymic. in metaphor, one sign is substituted for another because it is somehow similar to it: 'passion' becomes 'flame'. in metonymy, one sign is associated with another: 'wing' is associated with 'aircraft' because it is part of it, "sky' with 'aircraft' because of physical contiguity. we can make metaphors because we have a series of signs which are 'equivalent': 'passion', 'flame', 'love' and so on. when we speak or write, we select signs from a possible range of equivalences, and then combine them together to form a sentence. what happens in poetry, however, is that we pay attention to 'equivalences' in the process of combining words together as well as in selecting them: we string together words which are semantically or rhythmically or phonetically or in some other way equivalent. this is why jakobson is able to say, in a famous definition, that 'the poetic function projects the principle of equivalence from the axis of selection to the axis of combination. jakobson, jan mukarovsky, felix vodicka and others represent a kind of transition from formalism to modern structuralism. they elaborated the ideas of the formalists, but systematized them more firmly within the framework of saussurean linguis tics. poems were to be viewed as 'functional structures', in which signifiers and signifieds are governed by a single complex set of relations. these signs must be studied in their own right, not as reflections of an external reality: saussure's stress on the arbitrary relation between sign and referent, word and thing, helped to detach. the text from its surroundings and make of it an autonomous object. yet the literary work was still related to the world by the formalist concept of 'defamiliarization': art estranges and undermines con ventional sign-systems, compels our attention to the material process of language itself, and so renews our perceptions. in not taking language for granted, we are also transforming our consciousness. with the work of the prague school, the term 'structuralism' comes more or less to merge with the word 'semiotics'. 'semiotics', or 'semiology', means the systematic study of signs, and this is what literary structuralists are really doing. the word 'structuralism' itself indicates a method of enquiry, which can be applied to a whole range of objects from football matches to economic modes of production; 'semiotics' denotes rather a particular . fieldof study, that of systems which would in an ordinary sense be regarded as signs: poems, bird calls, traffic lights, medical symptoms and so on. but the two words overlap, since structuralism treats something which may not usually be thought of as a system of signs as though it were the kinship relations of tribal societies, for example while semiotics commonly uses structuralist methods. and since any two words whatsoever may be juxtaposed on the basis of some equivalent feature, this possibility is more or less unlimited. each word in the text is linked by a whole set of formal structures to several other words, and its meaning is thus always 'overdetermined', always the result of several different determinants acting together. an individual word may relate to another word through assonance, to another through syntactical equivalence, to yet another through morpho logical parallelism, and so on. each sign thus participates in several different 'paradigmatic patterns' or systems simultaneously, and this complexity is greatly compounded by the 'syntagmatic' chains of association, the 'lateral' rather than 'vertical' structures, in which signs are placed. the poetic text for lotman is thus a 'system of systems', a relation of relations. it is the most complex form of discourse imaginable, condensing together several systems each of which contains its own tensions, parallelisms, repetitions and oppositions, and each of which is continually modifying all of the others. a poem, in fact, can only be re-read, not read, since some of its structures can only be perceived retrospectively. poetry activates the full body of the signifier, presses the word to work to its utmost under the intense pressure of surrounding words, and so to release its richest potential. whatever we perceive in the text is perceived only by contrast and difference: an element which had no differential relation to any other would remain invisible. even the absence of certain devices may produce meaning: if the codes which the work has generated lead us to expect a rhyme or a happy ending which does not materialize, this 'minus device', as lotman terms it, may be as effective a unit of meaning as any other. despite this unique verbal richness, lotman does not consider that po etry or literature can be defined by their inherent linguistic properties. the meaning of the text is not just an internal matter: it also inheres in the text's relation to wider systems of meaning, to other texts, codes and norms in literature and society as a whole. its meaning is also relative to the reader's 'horizon of expectations': lotman has learned the lessons of reception theory well. it is the reader who by virtue of certain 'receptive codes' at his or her disposal identifies an element in the work as a 'device'; the device is not simply an internal feature but one perceived through a particular code and against a definite textual background. one person's poetic device may be another's daily speech. it is obvious from all this that literary criticism has come a long way from the days when we had to do little more than thrill to the beauty of the imagery. what semiotics represents, in fact, is literary criticism transfigured by structural linguistics, rendered a more disciplined and less impression istic enterprise which, as lotman's work testifies, is more rather than less alive to the wealth of form and language than most traditional criticism. but if structuralism transformed the study of poetry, it also revolutionized the study of narrative. indeed it created a whole new literary science narratology of which the most influential practitioners have been the lithuanian a. j. greimas, the bulgarian tzvetan todorov, and the french critics gerard genette, claude bremond and roland barthes. the modern structuralist analysis of narrative began with the pioneering work on myth of the french structural anthropologist claude levi-strauss, who viewed ap parently different myths as variations on a number of basic themes. the same, levi-strauss believes, can be said of totemic and kinship systems, which are less social and religious institutions than networks of communication, codes which permit the transmission of 'messages'. the mind which does all this thinking is not that of the indi vidual subject: myths think themselves through people, rather than vice versa. they have no origin in a particular consciousness, and no particular end in view. one result of structuralism, then, is the 'decentring' of the individual subject, who is no longer to be regarded as the source or end of meaning. myths have a quasi-objective collective existence, unfold their own 'concrete logic' with supreme disregard for the vagaries of individual thought, and reduce any particular consciousness to a mere function of themselves. each story of the decameron can thus be read as a kind of extended sentence, combining these units in different ways. and just as the work thus comes to be about its own quasi-linguistic structure, so for structuralism every liter ary work, in the act of apparently describing some external reality, is secretly casting a sideways glance at its own processes of construction. in the end, structuralism does not only think everything through again, this time as language; it thinks everything through again as though language were its very subject matter. moreover, the structuralist method implicitly questioned literature's claim to be a unique form of discourse: since deep structures could be dug out of mickey spillane as well as sir philip sidney, and no doubt the same ones at that, it was no longer easy to assign literature an onto logically privileged status. with the advent of structuralism, the world of the great aestheticians and humanist literary scholars of twentieth century europe the world of croce, curtius, auerbach, spitzer and wellek seemed one whose hour had passed. " these men, with their formidable erudition, imaginative insight and cosmopolitan range of allu sion, appeared suddenly in historical perspective, as luminaries of a high european humanism which pre-dated the turmoil and conflagration of the mid-twentieth century. the structuralist emphasis on the 'constructedness' of human meaning represented a major advance. meaning was neither a private experience nor a divinely ordained occurrence: it was the product of certain shared systems of signification. the confident bourgeois belief that the isolated individual subject was the fount and origin of all meaning took a sharp knock: language pre-dated the individual, and was much less his or her product than he or she was the product of it. meaning was not'natural', a question of just looking and seeing, or something eternally settled; the way you interpreted your world was a function of the languages you had at your disposal, and there was evidently nothing immutable about these. meaning was not some thing which all men and women everywhere intuitively shared, and then articulated in their various tongues and scripts: what meaning you were able to articulate depended on what script or speech you shared in the first place. there were the seeds here ofa social and historical theory of meaning, whose implications were to run deep within contemporary thought. reality was not reflected by language but produced by it: it was a particular way of carving up the world which was deeply dependent on the sign-systems we had at our command, or more precisely which had us at theirs. the suspicion began to arise, then, that structuralism was only not an empiricism because it was yet one more form of philosophical idealism that its view of reality as essentially a product of language was simply the latest version of the classical the world was constituted by human consciousness. structuralism scandalized the literary establishment with its neglect of the individual, its clinical approach to the mysteries of literature, and its clear incompatibility with common sense. the fact that structuralism of fends common sense has always been a point in its favour. common sense holds that things generally have only one meaning and that this meaning is inscribed on the faces of the objects we encounter. usually obvious, the world is pretty much as we perceive it, and our way of perceiving it is the natural, self-evident one. we know the sun goes round the earth because we can see that it does. at different times common sense has dictated burning witches, hanging sheep-stealers and avoiding jews for fear of fatal infection, but this statement is not itself commonsensical since common sense believes itself to be historically invariable. thinkers who have argued that the apparent meaning is not necessarily the real one have usually been met with scorn: copernicus was followed by marx, who claimed that the true significance of social processes went on 'behind the backs' of individual agents, and after marx freud argued that the real meanings of our words and actions were quite imperceptible to the conscious mind. structuralism is a modern inheritor of this belief that reality, and our experience of it, are discontinuous with each other; as such, it threatens the ideological security of those who wish the world to be within their control, to carry its singular meaning on its face and to yield it up to them in the unblemished mirror of their language. it undermines the empiricism of the literary humanists the belief that what is most 'real' is what is experienced, and that the home of this rich, subtle, complex experience is literature itself. like freud, it exposes the shocking truth that even our most intimate experience is the effect of a structure. the laws of the structuralism, in a word, was hair-raisingly unhistorical: mind it claimed to isolate parallelisms, oppositions, inversions and the rest moved at a level of generality quite remote from the concrete differences of human history. from this olympian height, all minds looked pretty much alike. having characterized the underlying rule-systems of a literary text, all the structuralist could do was sit back and wonder what to do. next. there was no question of relating the work to the realities of which it treated, or to the conditions which produced it, or to the actual readers who studied it, since the founding gesture of structuralism had been to bracket off such realities. in order to reveal the nature of language, saussure, as we have seen, had first of all to repress or forget what it talked about: the referent, or real object which the sign denoted, was put in suspension so that the structure of the sign itself could be better examined. it is notable how similar this gesture is to husserl's bracketing of the real object in order to get to closer grips with the way the mind experiences it. structuralism and phenomenology, dissimilar though they are in central ways, both spring from the ironic act of shutting out the material world in order the better to illuminate our consciousness of it. for anyone who believes that conscious ness is in an important sense practical, inseparably bound up with the ways we act in and on reality, any such move is bound to be self-defeating. it is rather like killing a person in order to examine more conveniently the circulation of the blood. but it was not just a matter of shutting out something as general as 'the it was a question of discovering some toehold of certainty in a world': particular world where certainty seemed hard to come by. the lectures which make up saussure's course in general linguistics were delivered in the heart of europe between 1907 and 1911, on the brink of an historical collapse which saussure himself did not live to see. these were precisely the years in which edmund husserl was formulating the major doctrines of phenom enology, in a european centre not far removed from saussure's geneva. at about the same time, or a little later, the major writers of twentieth-century english literature yeats, eliot, pound, lawrence, joyce were developing their own closed symbolic systems, in which tradition, theosophy, the male and female principles, medievalism and mythology were to provide the keystones of complete 'synchronic' structures, exhaustive models for the control and explanation of historical reality. saussure himself was to posit the existence of a 'collective consciousness' underlying the system of langue. saussure looked at the development of language in terms of one synchronic system following another, rather like the vatican official who remarked that whether the pope's imminent pronouncement on the question of birth control turned out to uphold the previous teaching or not, the church would nevertheless have moved from one state of certainty to another state of certainty. for saussure, historical change was something which afflicted the individual elements of a language, and could only in this indirect way affect the whole: the language as a whole would reorganize itself to accommodate such disturbances, like learning to live with a wooden leg or like eliot's tradition welcoming a new masterpiece to the club. behind this linguistic model lies a definite view of human society: change is disturbance and disequilibrium in an essentially conflict-free system, which will stagger for a moment, regain its balance and take the change in its stride. linguistic change for saussure seems a matter of accident: it happens 'blindly', and it was left to the later formalists to explain how change itself might be grasped systemati cally. jakobson and his colleague yury tynyanov saw the history of litera ture as itself forming a system, in which at any given point some forms and genres were 'dominant' while others were subordinate. literary develop ment took place by way of shifts within this hierarchical system, such that a previously dominant form became subordinate or vice versa. the dynamic of this process was 'defamiliarization': if a dominant literary form had grown stale and 'imperceptible' if, for example, some of its devices had been taken over by a sub-genre such as popular journalism, thus blurring its difference from such writings a previously subordinate form would emerge to 'defamiliarize' this situation. historical change was a matter of the gradual realignment of fixed elements within the system: nothing ever disappeared, it merely changed shape by altering its relations to other elements. structuralism broke with conventional literary criticism in many ways, while remaining mortgaged to it in many others. its preoccupation with language was, as we have seen, radical in its implications, but it was at the same time a familiar obsession of academics. was ianguage really all there was? what about labour, sexuality, political power? these realities might themselves be inextricably caught up in discourse, but they were certainly not reducible to it. what political conditions themselves determined this extreme 'foregrounding' of language itself? was the structuralist view of the literary text as a closed system really much different from the new critical treatment of it as an isolated object? what had happened to the concept of literature as a social practice, a form of production which was not necessarily exhausted by the product itself? structuralism could dissect that product, but it refused to enquire into the material conditions of its making, since this might mean surrendering to the myth of an 'origin'. nor were many struc turalists worried about how the product was actually consumed about what happened when people actually read works of literature, what role such works played in social relations as a whole. moreover, was not structural ism's stress on the integrated nature of a sign-system just another version of the work as 'organic unity'? levi-strauss spoke of myths as imaginary resolutions of real social contradictions; yury lotman used the imagery of cybernetics to show how the poem formed a complex organic totality; the prague school developed a 'functionalist' view of the work in which all the parts laboured inexorably together for the good of the whole. traditional criticism had sometimes reduced the literary work to little more than a window on to the author's psyche; structuralism seemed to make it a win dow on to the universal mind. the 'materiality' of the text itself, its detailed linguistic processes, was in danger of being abolished: the 'surface' of a piece of writing was little more than the obedient reflection of its concealed depths. for the humanist tradition, meaning is something that i create, or that we create together; but how could we create meaning unless the rules which govern it were already there? however far back we 'push, however much we hunt for the origin of mean ing, we will always find a structure already in place. this structure could not have been simply the result of speech, for how were we able to speak coherently in the first place without it? we could never discover the 'first sign' from which it all began, because, as saussure makes clear, one sign presupposes another from which it differs, and that another. if language was ever 'born', levi-strauss speculates, it must have been born 'at a stroke'. roman jakobson's communicative model, the reader will remember, starts from an addresser who is the source of the transmitted message; but where did this addresser come from? to be able to transmit a message at all, he or she must already be caught up in and constituted by language. in the beginning was the word. in a certain practical situation, the words just do seem to mean what they mean whatever i might whimsically want them to mean. but what if i asked you to close the door having just spent twenty minutes roping you to your chair? what if the door was closed already, or there was no door there at all? then, surely, you would be quite justified to ask me: 'what do you mean? ' it isn't that you don't understand the meaning of my words; it is that you don't understand the meaning of my words. it will not help if i hand you a dictionary. asking 'what do you mean? ' in this situation is indeed asking about the intentions of a human subject, and unless i understand these then the request to close the door is in an im portant sense meaningless. asking about my intentions, however, is not necessarily asking to peer into my mind and observe the mental processes going on there. it is not necessary to see intentions in the way that e. d. hirsch does, as essentially private 'mental acts'. to ask in such a situation 'what do you mean? ' is really to ask what effects my language is trying to bring about: it is a way of understanding the situation itself, not an attempt to tune into ghostly im pulses within my skull. understanding my intention is grasping my speech and behaviour in relation to a significant context. when we understand the 'intentions' of a piece of language, we interpret it as being in some sense oriented, structured to achieve certain effects; and none of this can be grasped apart from the practical conditions in which the language operates. it is to see language as a practice rather than as an object; and there are of course no practices without human subjects. the shift away from structuralism has been in part, to use the terms of the french linguist emile benveniste, a move from 'language' to 'discourse'. " 'language' is speech or writing viewed 'objectively', as a chain of signs without a subject. 'discourse' means language grasped as utterance, as in volving speaking and writing subjects and therefore also, at least potentially, readers or listeners. this is not simply a return to the pre-structuralist days when we thought that language belonged to us individually as our eyebrows it does not revert to the classical 'contractual' model of language, did; according to which language is just a sort of instrument essentially isolated individuals use to exchange their pre-linguistic experiences. this was really a 'market' view of language, closely associated with the historical growth of bourgeois individualism: meaning belonged to me like my commodity, and language was just a set of tokens which like money allowed me to exchange my meaning-commodity with another individual who was also a private proprietor of meaning. it was difficult on this empiricist theory of language to know how what got exchanged was the genuine article: if i had a concept, fixed a verbal sign to it and threw the whole package across to someone else, who looked at the sign and rifled through his own verbal filing system for the corresponding concept, how could i ever know that he was matching up signs and concepts in the way that i was? maybe we were all systematically misunderstanding each other all of the time. laurence sterne wrote a novel, tristram shandy, exploiting the comic potential of just this empiricist model, not long after it had become the standard philosophical view of language in england. there was no question for the critics of structuralism of returning to this sorry state in which we viewed signs in terms of con cepts, rather than talking about. having concepts as particular ways of hand ling signs. it was just that a theory of meaning which seemed to squeeze out the human subject was very curious. in 1962, roman jakobson and claude levi-strauss published an analysis of charles baudelaire's poem les chats which has become something of a classic of high structuralist practice. " with toothcombing tenacity, the essay dug out a set of equivalences and oppositions from the poem's semantic, syntactic and phonological levels, equivalences and oppositions which ex tended right down to individual phonemes. but as michael riffaterre pointed out in a famous rejoinder to this critique, some of the structures jakobson and levi-strauss identified would simply have been imperceptible to even the most vigilant reader. " moreover, the analysis took no account of the reading process: it seized the text synchronically, as an object in space rather than a movement in time. a particular meaning in a poem will cause us retrospectively to revise what we have learnt already; a word or image which is repeated does not mean the same as it did the first time, by virtue of the very fact that it is a repetition. no event occurs twice, precisely because it has occurred once already. the baudelaire essary, riffaterre argues, also overlooks certain crucial connotations of words which one could recognize only by moving outside the text itself to the cultural and social codes on which it draws; and this move, of course, is forbidden by the authors' structuralist assumptions. in true structuralist fashion, they treat the poem as 'language'; riffaterre, by appealing to the reading process and the cultural situation in which the work is apprehended, has gone some way towards regarding it as 'discourse'. it was not simply a matter of asking 'what the sign meant', but of investigating its varied history, as conflicting social groups, classes, individuals and discourses sought to ap propriate it and imbue it with their own meanings. language, in short, was a field of ideological contention, not a monolithic system; indeed signs were the very material medium of ideology, since without them no values or ideas could exist. bakhtin respected what might be called the 'relative autonomy' of language, the fact that it could not be reduced to a mere reflex of social interests; but he insisted that there was no language which was not caught up in definite social relationships, and that these social relationships were in turn part of broader political, ideological and economic systems. words were 'multi-accentual' rather than frozen in meaning: they were always the words of one particular human subject for another, and this practical context would shape and shift their meaning. moreover, since all signs were material quite as material as bodies or automobiles and since there could be no human consciousness without them, bakhtin's theory of language laid the foundation for a materialist theory of consciousness itself. human con sciousness was the subject's active, material, semiotic intercourse with others, not some sealed interior realm divorced from these relations; con sciousness, like language, was both 'inside' and 'outside' the subject simul taneously. language was not to be seen either as 'expression', 'reflection' or abstract system, but rather as a material means of production, whereby the material body of the sign was transformed through a process of social conflict and dialogue into meaning. there are problems with speech act theory, both in itself and as a model of literature. it is not clear that such theory can finally avoid smuggling in the old 'intending subject' of phenomenology in order to anchor itself, and its preoccupations with language seem unhealthily juridical, a matter of who is allowed to say what to whom in what conditions. " the object of austin's analysis is, as he says, 'the total speech act in the total speech situation'; but bakhtin shows that there is rather more involved in such acts and situations than speech act theory suspects. it is also dangerous to take 'living speech' situations as models for literature. for literary texts are not of course literally speech acts: flaubert is not actually talking to me. if anything, they are 'pseudo' or 'virtual' speech acts 'imitations' of speech acts and as such were more or less dismissed by austin himself as 'non-serious' and defec tive. it is a piece of language which has been detached from any specific 'living' relationship and thus subject to the 'reinscriptions' and reinterpretations of many different read ers. the work itself cannot 'foresee' its own future history of interpretations, cannot control and delimit these readings as we can do, or try to do, in face to-face conversation. its 'anonymity' is part of its very structure, not just an the unfortunate accident which befalls it; and in this sense to be an 'author' 'origin' of one's own meanings, with 'authority' over them is a myth. to see the relation between language and human subjectivity in this way is to concur with the structuralists in avoiding what may be called the 'humanist' fallacy the naive notion that a literary text is just a kind of transcript of the living voice of a real man or woman addressing us. such a view of literature always tends to find its distinguishing characteristic the fact that it is written somehow disturbing: the print, in all its cold imper sonality, interposes its ungainly bulk between ourselves and the author. if only we could talk to cervantes directly! such an attitude 'dematerializes' literature, strives to reduce its material density as language to the intimate spiritual encounter of living 'persons'. it goes along with the liberal human ist suspicion of all that cannot be immediately reduced to the interpersonal, from feminism to factory production. it is not, in the end, concerned with regarding the literary text as a text at all. but if structuralism avoided the humanist fallacy, it did so only to fall into the opposite trap of more or less abolishing human subjects altogether. for the structuralists, the 'ideal reader' of a work was someone who would have at his or her disposal all of the codes which would render it exhaustively intelligible. the reader was thus just a kind of mirror-reflection of the work itselfsomeone who would understand it 'as it was'. an ideal reader would need to be fully equipped with all the technical knowledge essential for deciphering the work, to be faultless in applying this knowledge, and free of any hampering restrictions. if this model was pressed to an extreme, he or she would have to be stateless, classless, ungendered, free of ethnic characteristics and without limiting cultural assumptions. it is true that one does not tend to meet many readers who fill this bill entirely satisfactorily, but the structuralists conceded that the ideal reader need not do anything so humdrum as actually exist. structuralism is among other things one more of literary theory's series of doomed attempts to replace religion with something as effective: in this case, with the modern religion of science. but the search for a purely objective reading of literary works clearly poses grievous problems. it seems imposs ible to eradicate some element of interpretation, and so of subjectivity, from even the most rigorously objective analysis. how, for example, did the structuralist identify the various 'signifying units' of the text in the first place? how did he or she decide that a specific sign or set of signs constituted such a basic unit, without recourse to frames of cultural assumption which structuralism in its strictest forms wished to ignore? for bakhtin, all lan guage, just because it is a matter of social practice, is inescapably shot through with valuations. words not only denote objects but imply attitudes to them: the tone in which you say 'pass the cheese' can signify how you regard me, yourself, the cheese and the situation we are in. structuralism conceded that language moved in this 'connotative' dimension, but it shrank implications of this. it certainly tended to disown back from the full valuations in the broader sense of saying whether you thought a particular literary work was good, bad or indifferent. it did so because this seemed unscientific, and because it was tired ofbellelettristic preciosity. there was thus no reason in principle why you should not spend your life as a struc turalist working on bus tickets. the science itself gave you no clue as to what might or might not be important. the prudishness of structuralism's evasion of value-judgements, like the prudishness of behaviourist psychology, with its coy, euphemistic, circumlocutory avoidance of any language which smacks of the human, was more than just a fact about its method. it suggested the extent to which structuralism was the dupe of an alienated theory of scientific practice, one powerfully dominant in late capitalist society. anything unlikely to prove distasteful in the middle-class suburbs is supplied with a work permit; less well-heeled ideas are packed back on the next boat. some of this criticism has in fact been sharp, subtle and useful: it has represented a significant advance in england on what existed before, and at its best displays an intellectual adventurousness which has not been greatly in evidence since the days of scrutiny. its individual readings of texts have often been remark ably cogent and rigorous, and french structuralism has been combined with a more english 'feel for language' in valuable ways. it is simply the extreme selectivity of its approach to structuralism, one not always acknowledged, which needs to be highlighted. but if what we are teaching and studying is not so much 'literary works' but the 'literary system' the whole system of codes, genres and conventions by which we identify and interpret literary works in the first then we seem to have unearthed a rather more solid object of place investigation. literary criticism can become a kind of metacriticism: its role is not primarily to make interpretative or evaluative statements but to step back and examine the logic of such statements, to analyse what we are up to, what codes and models we are applying, when we make them. 'to engage in the study of literature,' jonathan culler has argued, 'is not to produce yet another interpretation of king lear but to advance one's understanding of the conventions and operations of an institution, a mode of discourse. '14 structuralism is a way of refurbishing the literary institution, providing it with a raison d'itre more respectable and compelling than gush about sunsets. is it likely to give students of literature the impression that the existing corpus of conventions and operations is radically questionable, or will it rather intimate that they constitute some neutral technical wisdom which any student of literature needs to acquire? what is meant by the 'competent' reader? is there only one kind of competence, and by whose and what criteria is competence to be measured? one could imagine a dazzlingly suggestive interpretation of a poem being produced by someone who en tirely lacked 'literary competence' as conventionally defined someone who produced such a reading not by following the received hermeneutical pro cedures but by flouting them. a reading is not necessarily 'incompetent' because it ignores a conventional critical mode of operation: many readings are in a different sense incompetent because they follow such conventions all too faithfully. still less is it easy to assess 'competence' when we consider the way literary interpretation engages values, beliefs and assumptions which are not confined to the literary realm. literary texts are 'code productive' and 'code-transgressive' as well as 'code-confirming': they may teach us new ways of reading, not just reinforce the ones with which we come equipped. the 'ideal' or 'competent' reader is a static conception: it tends to suppress the truth that all judgements of 'competence' are cultur ally and ideologically relative, and that all reading involves the mobilizing of extra-literary assumptions for the measuring of which 'competence' is an absurdly inadequate model. even at the technical level, however, the concept of competence is a limited one. the competent reader is one who can apply to the text certain rules; but what are the rules for applying rules? the rule seems to indicate to us the way to go, like a pointing finger; but your finger only 'points' within a certain interpretation i make of what you are doing, one which leads me to look at the object indicated rather than up your arm. pointing is not an 'obvious' activity, and neither do rules carry their applications on their faces: they would not be 'rules' at all if they inexorably determined the way we were to apply them. rule-following involves creative interpretation, and it is often not at all easy to say whether i am applying a rule in the way that you are, or even whether we are applying the same rule at all. the way you apply a rule is not just a technical affair: it is bound up with wider interpretations of reality, with commitments and predilections which are not themselves reducible to conformity to a rule. the rule may be to trace parallelisms in the poem, but what is to count as a parallelism? if you disagree with. what counts for me as a parallelism, you have not broken any rule: i can only settle the argument by appealing to the authority of the literary institution, saying: 'this is what we mean by a parallelism. ' if you ask why we should follow this particular rule in the first place, i can only once more appeal to the authority of the literary institution and say: 'this is the kind of thing we do. ' to which you can always reply: 'well, do something else. ' an appeal to the rules which define competence will not allow me to counter this, and neither will an appeal to the text: there are thousands of things one can do with a text. it is not that you are being 'anarchistic': an anarchist, in the loose, popular sense of the word, is not someone who breaks rules but someone who makes a point of breaking rules, who breaks rules as a rule. you are simply challenging what the literary institution does, and although i might ward this off on various grounds, i certainly cannot do so by an appeal to 'competence', which is precisely what is in question. structuralism may examine and appeal to existing practice; but what is its answer to those who say: 'do something else'? saussure, as the reader will remember, argues that meaning in language is just a matter of difference. 'cat' is 'cat' because it is not 'cap' or 'bat'. but how far is one to press this process of difference? 'cat' is also what it is because it is not 'cad' or 'mat', and 'mat' is what it is because it is not 'map' or 'hat'. where is one supposed to stop? it would seem that this process of difference in language can be traced round infinitely: but if this is so, what has become of saussure's idea that language forms a closed, stable system? if every sign is what it is because it is not all the other signs, every sign would seem to be made up of a potentially infinite tissue of differences. defining a sign would therefore appear to be a more tricky business than one might have thought. saussure's langue suggests a delimited structure of meaning; but where in language do you draw the line? another way of putting what we have just said is that meaning is not immediately present in a sign. since the meaning of a sign is a matter of what the sign is not, its meaning is always in some sense absent from it too. meaning, if you like, is scattered or dispersed along the whole chain of signifiers: it cannot be easily nailed down, it is never fully present in anyone sign alone, but is rather a kind of constant flickering of presence and absence is more like tracing this process of constant together. reading a text flickering than it is like counting the beads on a necklace. there is also another sense in which we can never quite close our fists over meaning, which arises from the fact that language is a temporal process. when i read the meaning of it is always somehow suspended, something a sentence, deferred or still to come: one signifier relays me to another, and that to another, earlier meanings are modified by later ones, and although the sentence may come to an end the process of language itself does not. there is always more meaning where that came from. i do not grasp the sense of the sentence just by mechanically piling one word on the other: for the words to compose some relatively coherent meaning at all, each one of them must, so to speak, contain the trace of the ones which have gone before, and hold itself open to the trace of those which are coming after. each sign in the chain of meaning is somehow scored over or traced through with all the others, to form a complex tissue which is never exhaustible; and to this extent no sign is ever 'pure' or 'fully meaningful'. another sense in which meaning is never identical with itself is that signs must always be repeatable or reproducible. we would not call a 'sign' a mark which only occurred . once. the fact that a sign can be reproduced is therefore part of its identity; but it is also what divides its identity, because it can always be reproduced in a different context which changes its meaning. it is difficult to know what a sign 'originally' means, what its 'original' context was: we simply encounter it in many different situations, and although it must maintain a certain consistency across those situations in order to be an identifiable sign at all, because its context is always different it is never absolutely the same, never quite identical with itself. 'cat' may mean a furry four-legged creature, a malicious person, a knotted whip, an american, a horizontal beam for raising a ship's anchor, a six-legged tripod, a short tapered stick, and so on. the implication of all this is that language is a much less stable affair than the classical structuralists had considered. instead of being a well-defined, clearly demarcated structure containing symmetrical units of signifiers and signifieds, it now begins to look much more like a sprawling limitless web where there is a constant interchange and circulation of elements, where none of the elements is absolutely definable and where everything is caught up and traced through by everything else. if this is so, then it strikes a serious blow at certain traditional theories of meaning. for such theories, it was the function of signs to reflect inward experiences or objects in the real world, to 'make present' one's thoughts and feelings or to describe how reality was. we have already seen some of the problems with this idea of 'representation' in our previous discussion of structuralism, but now even more difficulties emerge. one way in which i might persuade myself that this is possible is by listening to my own voice when i speak, rather than writing my thoughts down on paper. for in the act of speaking i seem to 'coincide' with myself in a way quite different from what happens when i write. my spoken words seem immediately present to my consciousness, and my voice becomes their intimate, spontaneous medium. in writing, by contrast, my meanings threaten to escape from my control: i commit my thoughts to the impersonal medium of print, and since a printed text has a durable, material existence it can always be circulated, reproduced, cited, used in ways which i did not foresee or intend. writing seems to rob me of my being: it is a second-hand mode of communication, a. pallid, mechanical transcript of speech, and so always at one remove from my consciousness. it is for this reason that the western philosophical tradition, all the way from plato to levi-strauss, has consistently vilified writing as a mere lifeless, alienated form of expression, and consistently celebrated the living voice. behind this prejudice lies a particular view of 'man': man is able spontaneously to create and express his own meanings, to be in full possession of himself, and to dominate language as a transparent medium of his inmost being. what this theory fails to see is that the 'living voice' is in fact quite as material as print; and that since spoken signs, like written ones, work only by a process of difference and division, speaking could be just as much said to be a form of writing as writing is said to be a second-hand form of speaking. there is no concept which is not embroiled in an open-ended play of signification, shot through with the traces and fragments of other ideas. it is just that, out of this play of signifiers, certain meanings are elevated by social ideologies to a privileged position, or made the centres around which other meanings are forced to turn. consider, in our own society, freedom, the family, democracy, independence, authority, order and so on. some times such meanings are seen as the origin of all the others, the source from which they flow; but this, as we have seen, is a curious way of thinking, because for this meaning ever to have been possible other signs must already have existed. it is difficult to think of an origin without wanting to go back beyond it. at other times such meanings may be seen not as the origin but as the goal, towards which all other meanings are or should be steadily marching. but any such theory of history or language as a simple linear evolution misses the web-like complexity of signs which i have been describing, the back and forth, present and absent, forward and sideways movement of language in its actual processes. it is that web like complexity, indeed, which post-structuralism designates by the word 'text'. jacques derrida, the french philosopher whose views i have been ex pounding over the last few pages, labels as 'metaphysical' any such thought system which depends on an unassailable foundation, a first principle or unimpeachable ground upon which a whole hierarchy of meanings may be constructed. it is not that he believes that we can merely rid ourselves of the urge to forge such first principles, for such an impulse is deeply embedded in our history, and cannot at least as yet be eradicated or ignored. derrida would see his own work as inescapably 'contaminated' by such metaphysical thought, much as he strives to give it the slip. but if you examine such first principles closely, you can see that they may always be 'deconstructed': they can be shown to be products of a particular system of meaning, rather than what props it up from the outside. first principles of this kind are com monly defined by what they exclude: they are part of the sort of 'binary opposition' beloved of structuralism. 'deconstruction' is the name given to the critical opera tion by which such oppositions can be partly undermined, or by which they can be shown partly to undermine each other in the process of textual the 'other' of man: she is non-man, meaning. woman is the opposite, defective man, assigned a chiefly negative value in relation to the male first principle. but equally man is what he is only by virtue of ceaselessly shutting out this other or opposite, defining himself in antithesis to it, and his whole identity is therefore caught up and put at risk in the very gesture by which he seeks to assert his unique, autonomous existence. woman is not just an other in the sense of something beyond his ken, but an other intimately related to him as the image of what he is not, and therefore as an essential reminder of what he is. man therefore needs this other even as he spurns it, is constrained to give a positive identity to what he regards as no-thing. not only is his own being parasitically dependent upon the woman, and upon the act of excluding and subordinating her, but one reason why such exclusion is necessary is because she may not be quite so other after all. perhaps she stands as a sign of something in man himself which he needs to repress, expel beyond his own being, relegate to a securely alien region beyond his own definitive limits. perhaps what is outside is also somehow inside, what is alien also intimate so that man needs to police the absolute frontier between the two realms as vigilantly as he does just because it may always be transgressed, has always been transgressed already, and is much less abso lute than it appears. derrida's own typical habit of reading is to seize on some apparently peripheral fragment in the work a footnote, a recurrent minor term or image, a casual allusion and work it tenaciously through to the point where it threatens to dismantle the oppositions which govern the text as a whole. the tactic of deconstructive criticism, that is to say, is to show how texts come to embarrass their own ruling systems of logic; and deconstruction shows this by fastening on the 'symptomatic' points, the aporia or impasses of meaning, where texts get into trouble, come unstuck, offer to contradict themselves. this is not just an empirical observation about certain kinds of writing: it is a universal proposition about the nature of writing itself. for if the theory of signification with which i began this chapter is at all valid, then there is something in writingitselfwhich finally evades all systems and logics. there is a continual flickering, spilling and defusing of meaning what derrida calls 'dissemination' which cannot be easily contained with the categories of the text's structure, or within the categories of a conventional critical approach to it. writing, like any process of language, works by difference; but difference is not itself a concept, is not something that can be thought. a text may 'show' us something about the nature of meaning and signification which it is not able to formulate as a proposition. all language, for derrida, displays this 'surplus' over exact meaning, is always threatening to outrun and escape the sense which tries to contain it. the advent of the concept of writing, then, is a challenge to the very idea of structure: for a structure always presumes a centre, a fixed principle, a hierarchy of meanings and a solid foundation, and it is just these notions which the endless differing . and deferring of writing throws into question. we have moved, in other words, from the era of structuralism to the reign of post-structuralism, a style of thought which embraces the deconstructive operations of derrida, the work of the french historian michel foucault, the writings of the french psychoanalyst jacques lacan and of the feminist philosopher and critic julia kristeva. i have not dis cussed foucault's work explicitly in this book; but my conclusion would have been impossible without it, as its influence there is pervasive. language is barthes's theme from beginning to end, and in particular the saussurean insight that the sign is always a matter of historical and cultural convention. the 'healthy' sign, for barthes, is one which draws attention to its own arbitrariness which does not try to palm itself off as 'natural' but which, in the very moment of conveying a meaning, communicates some thing of its own relative, artificial status as well. the impulse behind this belief in the earlier work is a political one: signs which pass themselves off as natural, which offer themselves as the only conceivable way of viewing the is one of the world, are by that functions of ideology to 'naturalize' social reality, to make it seem as inno cent and unchangeable as nature itself. ideology seeks to convert culture into nature, and the 'natural' sign is one of its weapons. saluting a flag, or agreeing that western democracy represents the true meaning of the word 'freedom', become the most obvious, spontaneous responses in the world. the realist or representational sign, then, is for barthes essentially un healthy. it effaces its own status as a sign, in order to foster the illusion that we are perceiving reality without its intervention. the sign as 'reflection', 'expression' or 'representation' denies the productive character of language: it suppresses the fact that we only have a 'world' at all because we have language to signify it, and that what we count as 'real' is bound up with what alterable structures of signification we live within. barthes's 'double' sign the sign which gestures to its own material existence at the same time as it conveys a meaning is the grandchild of the 'estranged' language of the formalists and czech structuralists, of the jakobsonian 'poetic' word which flaunts its own palpable linguistic being. i say 'grandchild' rather than 'child', because the more direct offspring of the formalists were the socialist artists of the german weimar republic bertolt brecht among them who employed such 'estrangement effects' to political ends. the 'writable' text, usually a modernist one, has no determinate meaning, no settled signifieds, but is plural and diffuse, an inexhaustible tissue or galaxy of signifiers, a seamless weave of codes and fragments of codes, through which the critic may cut his own errant path. there are no beginnings and no ends, no sequences which cannot be reversed, no hierarchy of textual 'levels' to tell you what is more or less significant. all literary texts are woven out of other literary texts, not in the conventional sense that they bear the traces of 'influence' but in the more radical sense that every word, phrase or segment is a reworking of other writings which precede or surround the individual work. there is no such thing as literary 'originality', no such thing as the 'first' literary work: all literature is 'intertextual'. a specific piece of writing thus has no clearly defined boundaries: it spills over constantly into the works clustered around it, generating a hundred different perspectives which dwindle to vanishing point. it is, in fact, the literary movement of modernism which brought struc turalist and post-structuralist criticism to birth in the first place. some of the later works of barthes and derrida are modernist literary texts in them selves, experimental, enigmatic and richly ambiguous. there is no clear division for post-structuralism between 'criticism' and 'creation': both modes are subsumed into 'writing' as such. structuralism began to happen when language became an obsessive preoccupation of intellectuals; and this happened in turn because in the late nineteenth and twentieth centuries, language in western europe was felt to be in the throes of deep crisis. how was one to write, in an industrial society where discourse had become degraded to a mere instrument of science, commerce, advertising and bur eaucracy? what audience was one to write for in any case, given the satura tion of the reading public by a 'mass', profit-hungry, anodyne culture? could a literary work be at once an artefact and a commodity on the open market? writing turns in on itself in a profound act of narcissism, but always troubled and overshadowed by the social guilt of its own uselessness. unavoidably complicit with those who have reduced it to an unwanted commodity, it nevertheless strains to free itself from the con tamination of social meaning, either by pressing towards the purity of si lence, as with the symbolists, or by seeking an austere neutrality, a 'degree zero of writing' which would hope to appear innocent but which is in reality, as hemingway exemplifies, just as much a literary style as any other. there is no doubt that the 'guilt' of which barthes speaks is the guilt of the institution of literature itself an institution which, as he comments, testifies to the division of languages and the division of classes. text was published five years after a social eruption which rocked france's political fathers to their roots. in 1968 the student movement had swept across europe, striking against the authoritarianism of the educational insti tutions and in france briefly threatening the capitalist state itself. for a dramatic moment, that state teetered on the brink of ruin: its police and in the streets with students who were struggling to forge army fought solidarity with the working class. unable to provide a coherent political leadership, plunged into a confused melee of socialism, anarchism and in fantile behind-baring, the student movement was rolled back and dissipated; betrayed by their supine stalinist leaders, the working-class movement was unable to assume power. charles de gaulle returned from a hasty exile, and . the french state regrouped its forces in the name of patriotism, law and order. such a position, as i have argued, was born of a specific political defeat and disillusion. the 'total structure' which it identified as the enemy was an historically particular one: the armed, repressive state of late monopoly capitalism, and the stalinist politics which pretended to confront it but were deeply complicit with its rule. long before the emergence of post structuralism, generations of socialists had been fighting both of these monoliths. but they had overlooked the possibility that the erotic frissons of reading, or even work confined to those labelled criminally insane, were an adequate solution, and so had the guerrilla fighters of guatemala. in one of its developments, post-structuralism became a convenient way of evading such political questions altogether. the work of derrida and others had cast grave doubt upon the classical notions of truth, reality, meaning and knowledge, all of which could be exposed as resting on the signified, a naively representational theory of language. if meaning, was a passing product of words or signifiers, always shifting and unstable, part-present and part-absent, how could there be any determinate truth or meaning at all? if reality was constructed by our discourse rather than reflected by it, how could we ever know reality itself, rather than merely knowing our own discourse? was all talk just talk about our talk? did it make sense to claim that one interpretation of reality, history or the literary text was 'better' than another? hermeneutics had devoted itself to sympathetically understanding the meaning of the past; but was there really any past to be known at all, other than as a mere function of present discourse? to employ words like 'truth', 'certainty' and the 'real' was in some quarters to be instantly denounced as a metaphysician. if you demurred at the dogma that we could never know anything at all, then this was because you clung nostalgically to notions of absolute truth, and to a megalomaniac conviction that you, along with some of the smarter natural scientists, could see reality 'just as it was'. the fact that nowadays one encounters extremely few believers in such doctrines, not least among philo sophers of science, did not seem to deter the sceptics. the model of science frequently derided by post-structuralism is usually a positivist one some version of the nineteenth-century rationalistic claim to a transcendental, value-free knowledge of 'the facts'. this model is actually a straw target. it does not exhaust the term 'science', and nothing is to be gained by this there are no absolute caricature of scientific self-reflection. to say that grounds for the use of such words as truth, certainty, reality and so on is not to say that these words lack meaning or are ineffectual. whoever thought such absolute grounds existed, and what would they look like if they did? one advantage of the dogma that we are the prisoners of our own dis course, unable to advance reasonably certain truth-claims because such claims are merely relative to our language, is that it allows you to drive a coach and horses through everybody else's beliefs while not saddling you with the inconvenience of having to adopt any yourself. it is, in effect, an invulnerable position, and the fact that it is also purely empty is simply the price one has to pay for this. the view that the most significant aspect of any piece of language is that it does not know what it is talking about smacks of a jaded resignation to the impossibility of truth which is by no means unrelated to post-1968 historical disillusion. but it also frees you at a stroke from having to assume a position on important issues, since what you say of such things will be no more than a passing product of the signifier and so in no sense to be taken as 'true' or 'serious'. a further benefit of this stance is that it is mischievously radical in respect of everyone else's opinions, able to unmask the most solemn declarations as mere dishevelled plays of signs, while utterly conservative in every other way. since it commits you to affirming nothing, it is as injurious as blank ammunition. all language, as de man rightly perceives, is ineradicably metaphorical, working by tropes and figures; it is a mistake to believe that any language is literally literal. philosophy, law, political theory work by metaphor just as poems do, and so are just as fictional. since metaphors are essentially 'groundless', mere substitutions of one set of signs for another, language tends to betray its own fictive and arbitrary nature at just those points where it is offering to be most intensively persuasive. 'literature' is that realm in which this ambiguity is most evident in which the reader finds herself suspended between a 'literal' and a figurative meaning, unable to choose between the two, and thus cast dizzyingly into a bottomless linguistic abyss by a text which has become 'unreadable'. literary works, however, are in a sense less deluded than other forms of discourse, because they implicitly acknowledge their own rhetorical status the fact that what they say is different from what they do, that all their claims to knowledge work through figurative structures which render them ambiguous and inde terminate. they are, one might say, ironic in nature. other forms of writing are just as figurative and ambiguous, but pass themselves off as unquestion able truth. for de man, as for his colleague hillis miller, literature does not need to be deconstructed by the critic: it can be shown to deconstruct itself, and moreover is actually 'about' this very operation. the textual ambiguities of the yale critics differ from the poetic ambival ences of new criticism. reading is not a matter of fusing two different but determinate meanings, as it was for the new critics: it is a matter of being caught on the hop between two meanings which can be neither reconciled nor refused. literary criticism thus becomes an ironic, uneasy business, an unsettling venture into the inner void of the text which lays bare the illus oriness of meaning, the impossibility of truth and the deceitful guiles of all discourse. in another sense, however, such anglo-american deconstruction is no more than the return of the old new critical formalism. indeed it returns in intensified form, because whereas for new criticism the poem did in some indirect way discourse about extra-poetic reality, literature for the deconstructionists testifies to the impossibility of language's ever doing more than talk about its own failure, like some barroom bore. literature is the ruin of all reference, the cemetery of communication. since pru dent men and women are not prone to take action in situations whose significance is not reasonably clear, this viewpoint is not without its implica tions for one's style of social and political life. yet since literature is the privileged paradigm of all such indeterminacy, the new critical retreat into the literary text can be reproduced at the same time as criticism reaches out a revenging hand over the world and strikes it empty of meaning. whereas for earlier literary theories it was experience which was elusive, evanescent, richly ambiguous, now it is language. the terms have altered; much of the world-view has remained remarkably unchanged. such texts are closed precisely because they are empty: there is little to be done with them beyond admiring the relentlessness with which all positive particles of textual meaning have been dissolved away. such disso lution is an imperative in the academic game of deconstruction: for you can be sure that if your own critical account of someone else's critical account of a text has left the tiniest grains of 'positive' meaning within its folds, some body else will come along and deconstruct you in turn. such deconstruction is a power-game, a mirror-image oforthodox academic competition. it is just that now, in a religious twist to the old ideology, victory is achieved by kenosis or self-emptying: the winner is the one who has managed to get rid of all his cards and sit with empty hands. like all stories, however, the narrative of post-structuralism has another side. if the american deconstructionists considered that their textual enter prise was faithful to the spirit ofjacques derrida, one of those who did not wasjacques derrida. certain american uses of deconstruction, derrida has observed, work to ensure 'an institutional closure' which serves the domi nant political and economic interests of american society. " derrida is clearly out to do more than develop new techniques of reading: deconstruction is for him an ultimately politicalpractice, an attempt to dismantle the logic by which a particular system of thought, and behind that a whole system of political structures and social institutions, maintains its force. he is not seeking, absurdly, to deny the existence of relatively determinate truths, meanings, identities, intentions, historical continuities; he is seeking rather of language, to see such things as the effects of a wider and deeper history of the unconscious, of social institutions and practices. that his own work has been grossly unhistorical, politically evasive and in practice oblivious to language as 'discourse' is not to be denied: no neat binary opposition can be drawn up between an 'authentic' derrida and the abuses of his acolytes. but the widespread opinion that deconstruction denies the existence of anything but discourse, or affirms a realm of pure difference in which all meaning and identity dissolves, is a travesty of derrida's own work and of the most productive work which has followed from it. for though the oppression of women is indeed a material reality, a matter of motherhood, domestic labour, job discrimination and unequal wages, it cannot be reduced to these factors: it is also a question of sexual ideology, of the ways men and women image themselves and each other in male-dominated society, of perceptions and behaviour which range from the brutally explicit to the deeply unconscious. any politics which failed to place such issues at the heart of its theory and practice was likely to find itself consigned to the dustheap of history. because sexism and gender roles are questions which engage the deepest personal dimensions of human life, a politics which was blind to the experience of the human subject was crippled from the outset. the movement from structuralism to post-structuralism was in part a response to these political demands. of course it is untrue that the women's movement has a monopoly of 'experience', as is sometimes implied: what else. has socialism been but the bitter hopes and desires of many millions of men and women over the generations, who lived and sometimes died in the name of something rather more than a 'doctrine of the totality' or the primacy of the economic? nor is it adequate to identify the personal and political: that the personal is political is profoundly true, but there is an important sense in which the personal is also personal and the political political. political struggle cannot be reduced to the personal, or vice versa. the women's movement rightly rejected certain rigid organ izational forms and certain 'over-totalizing' political theories; but in doing so it often enough advanced the personal, the spontaneous and the experien tial as though these provided an adequate political strategy, rejected 'theory' in ways almost indistinguishable from commonplace anti-intellectualism, and in some of its sectors seemed as indifferent to the sufferings of anybody but women, and to the question of their political resolution, as some marxists had seemed indifferent to the oppression of anybody but the working class. if it was held in place by the material and psychical benefits which accrued to men from it, it was also held in place by a complex structure of fear, desire, aggression, masochism and anxiety which urgently needed to be examined. feminism was not an isolatable issue, a particular 'campaign' alongside other political projects, but a dimen sion which informed and interrogated every facet of personal, social and political life. the message of the women's movement, as interpreted by some of those outside it, is not just that women should have equality of power and status with men; it is a questioning of all such power and status. it is not that the world will be better off with more female participation in it; it is that without the 'feminization' of human history, the world is unlikely to survive. in the previous few chapters i have suggested a relationship between devel opments in modern literary theory and the political and ideological turmoil of the twentieth century. but such turmoil is never only a matter of wars, economic slumps and revolutions: it is also experienced by those caught up in it in the most intimately personal ways. it is a crisis of human relation ships, and of the human personality, as well as a social convulsion. this is not of course to argue that anxiety, fear of persecution and the fragmentation of the self are experiences peculiar to the era from matthew arnold to paul de man: they can be found throughout recorded history. what is perhaps significant is that in this period such experiences become constituted in a new way as a systematic field of knowledge. that field of knowledge is known as psychoanalysis, developed by sigmund freud in late nineteenth century vienna; and it is freud's doctrines that i now want briefly to summanze. weare prepared to put up with repression as long as we see that there is something in it for us; if too much is demanded of us, however, we are likely to fall sick. this form of sickness is known as neurosis; and since, as i have said, all human beings must be repressed to some degree, it is possible to speak of the human race, in the words of one of freud's commentators, as the 'neurotic animal'. it is import ant to see that such neurosis is involved with what is creative about us as a race, as well as with the causes of our unhappiness. one way in which we cope with desires we cannot fulfil is by 'sublimating' them, by which freud means directing them towards a more socially valued end. we might find an unconscious outlet for sexual frustration in building bridges or cathedrals. if marx iooked at the consequences of our need to labour in terms of the social relations, social classes and forms of politics which it entailed, freud looks at its implications for the psychical life. the paradox or contradiction on which his work rests is that we come to be what we are only by a massive repression of the elements which have gone into our making. we are not of course conscious of this, any more than for marx men and women are generally conscious of the social processes which determine their lives. indeed we could not be by definition conscious of this fact, since the place to which we relegate the desires we are unable to fulfil is known as the uncon scious. one question which immediately arises, however, is why it is human beings who should be the neurotic animal, rather than snails or tortoises. the small baby will suck its mother's breast for milk, but will discover in doing so that this biologically essential activity is also pleasurable; and this, for freud, is the first dawning of sexuality. the baby's mouth becomes not only an organ of its physical survival but an 'erotogenic zone', which the child might reacti vate a few years later by sucking its thumb, and a few years later than that by kissing. the relation to the mother has taken on anew, libidinal dimension: sexuality has been born, as a kind of drive which was at first inseparable from biological instinct but which has now separated itself out from it and at tained a certain autonomy. sexuality for freud is itself a 'perversion' a 'swerving away' of a natural self-preservative instinct towards another goal. as the infant grows, other erotogenic zones come into play. the oral stage, as freud calls it, is the first phase of sexual life, and is associated with the drive to incorporate objects. it is clear that the child in this state is not even prospectively a citizen who could be relied upon to do a hard day's work. it is anarchic, sadistic, aggressive, self-involved and remorselessly pleasure-seeking, under the sway of what freud calls the pleasure principle; nor does it have any respect for differences of gender. it is not yet what we might call a 'gendered subject': it surges with sexual drives, but this libidinal energy recognizes no distinction between masculine and feminine. if the child is to succeed in life at all, it obviously has to be taken in hand; and the mechanism by which this happens is what freud famously terms the oedipus complex. the child who emerges from the pre-oedipal stages we have been following is not only anarchic and sadistic but incestuous to boot: the boy's close involvement with his mother's body leads him to an unconscious desire for sexual union with her, whereas the girl, who has been similarly bound up with the mother and whose first desire is therefore always homosexual, begins to turn her libido towards the father. the early 'dyadic' or two-term relationship between infant and mother, that is to say, has now opened up into a triangle consisting of child and both parents; and for the child, the parent of the same sex will come to figure as a rival in its affections for the parent of the opposite sex. what persuades the boy-child to abandon his incestuous desire for the mother is the father's threat of castration. this threat need not necessarily be spoken; but the boy, in perceiving that the girl is herself 'castrated', begins to imagine this as a punishment which might be visited upon himself. he thus represses his incestuous desire in anxious resignation, adjusts him self to the 'reality principle', submits to the father, detaches himself from the mother, and comforts himself with the unconscious consolation that though he cannot now hope to oust his father and possess his mother, his father symbolizes a place, a possibility, which he himself will be able to take up and realize in the furture. if he is not a patriarch now, he will be later. the boy makes peace with his father, identifies with him, and is thus introduced into the symbolic role of manhood. he will one day become a father himself, thus sustaining this society by contributing to the business of sexual reproduction. his earlier diffuse libido has become organ ized through the oedipus complex in a way which centres it upon genital sexuality. if the boy is unable successfully to overcome the oedipus com plex, he may be sexually incapacitated for such a role: he may privilege the image of his mother above all other women, which for freud may lead to homosexuality; or the recognition that women are 'castrated' may have traumatized him so deeply that he is unable to enjoy satisfying sexual relationships with them. the story of the little girl's passage through the oedipus complex is a good deal less straightforward. it should be said right away that freud was nowhere more typical of his own male-dominated society than in his baffle ment in the face of female sexuality the 'dark continent', as he once called it. we shall have occasion to comment later on the demeaning, prejudiced attitudes towards women which disfigure his work, and his account of the girl's process of oedipalization is by no means easily separable from this sexism. the little girl, perceiving that she is inferior because 'castrated', turns in disillusionment from her similarly 'castrated' mother to the project of seducing her father; but since this project is doomed, she must finally turn back reluctantly to the mother, effect an identification with her, assume her feminine gender role, and unconsciously substitute for the penis which she envies but can never possess a baby, which she desires to receive from the father. there is no obvious reason why the girl should abandon this desire, since being 'castrated' already she cannot be threatened with castration; and it is therefore difficult to see by what mechanism her oedipus complex is dissolved. 'castration', far from prohibiting her incestuous desire as with the boy, is what makes it possible in the first place. moreover the girl, to enter into the oedipus complex, must change her 'love-object' from mother to father, whereas the boy has merely to carryon loving the mother; and since a change of love-objects is a more complex, difficult affair, this too raises a problem about female oedipalization. all, then, would now seem in place for gender roles to be reinforced, satisfactions to be postponed, authority to be accepted and the family and society to be reproduced. but we have forgotten about the unruly, insubor dinate unconscious. the child has now developed an ego or individual identity, a particular place in the sexual, familial and social networks; but it can do this only by, so to speak, splitting off its guilty desires, repressing them into the unconscious. the human subject who emerges from the oedipal process is a split subject, torn precariously between conscious and unconscious; and the unconscious can always return to plague it. in popular english speech, the word 'subconscious' rather than 'unconscious' is often used; but this is to underestimate the radical otherness of the unconscious, imagining it as a place just within reach below the surface. at any rate, dreams are enough to demonstrate that the unconscious has the admirable resourcefulness of a lazy, ill-supplied chef, who slings together the most diverse ingredients into a cobbled together stew, substituting one spice for another which he is out of, making do with whatever has arrived in the market that morning as a dream will draw opportunistically on the 'day's residues', mixing in events which took place during the day or sensations felt during sleep with images drawn deep from our childhood. dreams provide our main, but not our only, access to the unconscious. there are also what freud calls 'parapraxes', unaccountable slips of the tongue, failures of memory, bunglings, misreadings and mislayings which can be traced to unconscious wishes and intentions. the presence of the unconscious is also betrayed in jokes, which for freud have a largely libidinal, anxious or aggressive content. where the unconscious is most damagingly at work, however, is in psychological disturbance of one form or another. we may have certain unconscious desires which will not be denied, but which dare not find practical outlet either; in this situation, the desire forces its way in from the unconscious, the ego blocks it off defensively, and the result of this internal conflict is what we call neurosis. the patient begins in compromising fashion, at once protect to develop symptoms which, against the unconscious desire and covertly express it. much more difficult to cope with, however, is the condition of psychosis, in which the ego, unable as in neurosis partly to repress the unconscious desire, actually comes under its sway. if this happens, the link between the ego and the external world is ruptured, and the unconscious begins to build up an alternative, delusional reality". the psychotic, in other words, has lost contact with reality at key points, as in paranoia and schizophrenia: if the neurotic may develop a paralysed arm, the psychotic may believe that his arm has turned into an elephant's trunk. 'paranoia' refers to a more or less systematized state of delusion, under which freud includes not only delu sions of persecution but delusional jealousy and delusions of grandeur. the root of such paranoia he locates in an unconscious defence against homo sexuality: the mind denies this desire by converting the love-object into a rival or persecutor, systematically reorganizing and reinterpreting reality to confirm this suspicion. the patient is likely to resist the analyst's access to her unconscious by a number of familiar techniques, but if all goes well the transferential process will allow her problems to be 'worked through' into consciousness, and by dissolving the transference relation at the right moment the analyst will hope to relieve her of them. another way of describing this process is to say that the patient becomes able to recollect portions of her life which she has repressed: she is able to recount a new, more complete narrative about herself, one which will interpret and make sense of the disturbances from which she suffers. the 'talking cure', as it is called, will have taken effect. the work of psychoanalysis can perhaps best be summarized in one of freud's own slogans: 'where id was, there shall ego be. ' where men and women were in the paralysing grip of forces which they could not compre hend, there reason and self-mastery shall reign. such a slogan makes freud sound rather more of a rationalist than he actually was. though he once commented that nothing in the end could withstand reason and experience, he was about as far from underestimating the cunning and obstinacy of the mind as it is possible to be. his estimate of human capacities is on the whole conservative and pessimistic: we are dominated by a desire for gratification and an aversion to anything which might frustrate it. in his later work, he comes to see the human race as languishing in the grip of a terrifying death drive, a primary masochism which the ego unleashes on itself. the final goal of life is death, a return to that blissful inanimate state where the ego cannot be injured. freud's compassion for the ego is a compassion for the human race, labouring under the almost intolerable demands placed upon it by a civilization built upon the repression of desire and the deferment of gratification. he was scornful of all utopian proposals for changing this condition; but though many of his social views were conventional and authoritarian, he nevertheless looked with a certain favour upon attempts to abolish or at least reform the institu tions of private property and the nation state. he did so because he was deeply convinced that modern society had become tyrannical in its repres if a society has not siveness. any theory as complex and original as freud's is bound to be a source of fierce contention. freudianism has been attacked on a great number of grounds, and should in no way be taken as unproblematical. there are problems, for instance, about how it would test its doctrines, about what its claims; as one american would count as evidence for or against behaviourist psychologist remarked in conversation: 'the trouble with freud's work is that it just isn't testicle! ' it all depends, of course, on what you mean by 'testable'; but it would seem true that freud sometimes invokes a nineteenth-century concept of science which is no longer really acceptable. disinterested and objective though it strives to be, his work is shot through with what might be called. 'counter-transference', shaped by his own unconscious desires and sometimes distorted by his conscious ideological beliefs. the sexist values we have touched on already are a case in point. equally serious is the complaint that psychoanalysis as a medical practice is a form of oppressive social control, labelling individuals and forcing them to conform to arbitrary definitions of 'normality'. this charge is in fact more usually aimed against psychiatric medicine as a whole: as far as freud's own views on 'normality' are concerned, the accusation is largely misdirected. freud's work showed, scandalously, just how 'plastic' and variable in its choice of objects libido really is, how so-called sexual perversions form part of what passes as normal sexuality, and how heterosexuality is by no means a natural or self-evident fact. it is true that freudian psychoanalysis does usually work with some concept of a sexual 'norm'; but this is in no sense given by nature. there are other familiar criticisms of freud, which are not easy to sub stantiate. one is a merely commonsensical impatience: how could a little girl possibly desire her father's baby? whether this is true or not, it is not 'common sense' which will allow us to decide. one should remember the sheer bizarreness of the unconscious as it manifests itself in dreams, its distance from the daylight world of the ego, before rushing to dismiss freud on such intuitive grounds. another common criticism is that freud 'brings everything down to sex' that he is, in the technical term, a 'pan-sexualist'. this is certainly untenable: freud was a radically dualistic thinker, no doubt excessively so, and always counterposed to the sexual drives such non-sexual forces as the 'ego-instincts' of self-perservation. the seed of truth in the pan-sexualist charge is that freud regarded sexuality as central enough to human life to provide a component of all our activities; but that is not a sexual reductionism'. the roles of parents, the practices of child care, the images and beliefs associated with all of this are cultural matters which can vary considerably from one society or one point in history to another. 'childhood' is a recent historical invention, and the range of different historical set-ups encompassed by the word 'family' makes the word itself of limited value. one belief which has apparently not varied in these institutions is the assumption that girls and women are inferior to boys and men: this prejudice would seem to unite all known societies. since it is a prejudice with deep roots in our early sexual and familial development, psychoanalysis has become of major importance to some feminists. one freudian theorist to whom such feminists have had recourse for this purpose is the french psychoanalyst jacques lacan. it is not that lacan is a pro-feminist thinker: on the contrary, his attitudes to the women's move ment are in the main arrogant and contemptuous. but lacan's work is a strikingly original attempt to 'rewrite' freudianism in ways relevant to all those concerned with the question of the human subject, its place in society, and above all its relationship to language. this last concern is why lacan is also of interest to literary theorists. what lacan seeks to do in his ecrits is to reinterpret freud in the light of structuralist and post-structuralist theories of discourse; and while this leads to a sometimes bafflingly opaque, enigmatic body of work, it is nevertheless one that we must now briefly consider if we are to see how post-structuralism and psychoanalysis are interrelated. i have described how for freud, at an early point in the infant's develop ment, no clear distinction between subject and object, itself and the external is yet possible. it is this state of being which lacan names the world, 'imaginary', by which he means a condition in which we lack any defined centre of self, in which what 'self' we have seems to pass into objects, and objects into it, in a ceaseless closed exchange. in the pre-oedipal state, the child lives a 'symbiotic' relation with its mother's body which blurs any sharp boundary between the two: it is dependent for its life on this body, but we can equally imagine the child as experiencing what it knows of the external world as dependent upon itself. the child, who is still physically uncoordinated, finds reflected back to itself in the mirror a gratifyingly unified image of itself; and although its relation to this image is still of an 'imaginary' kind the image in the mirror both is and is not itself, a blurring of subject and object still obtains it has begun the process of constructing a centre of self. this self, as the mirror situation suggests, is essentially narcissistic: we arrive at a sense of an'! ' by finding that'! ' reflected back to ourselves by some object or person in the world. this object is at once somehow part of ourselves we identify with it and yet not ourselves, something alien. the image which the small child sees in the mirror is in this sense an 'alienated' one: the child 'misrecognizes' itself in it, finds in the image a pleasing unity which it does not actually experience in its own body. the imaginary for lacan is pre cisely this realm of images in which we make identifications, but in the very act of doing so are led to misperceive and misrecognize ourselves. as the child grows up, it will continue to make such imaginary identifications with objects, and this is how its ego will be built up. for lacan, the ego is just this narcissistic process whereby we bolster up a fictive sense of unitary selfhood by finding something in the world with which we can identify. in discussing the pre-oedipal or imaginary phase, we are considering a register of being in which there are really no more than two terms: the child itself and the other body, which at this point is usually the mother, and which represents external reality for the child. but as we have seen in our account of the oedipus complex, this 'dyadic' structure is destined to give way to a 'triadic' one: and this happens when the father enters upon and disrupts this harmonious scene. the father signifies what lacan calls the law, which is in the first place the social taboo on incest: the child is disturbed in its libidinal relation with the mother, and must begin to recog nize in the figure of the father that a wider familial and social network exists of which it is only part. not only is the child merely a part of this network, but the role it must play there is already predetermined, laid down for it by the practices of the society into which it has been born. with the entry of the father, the child is plunged into post-structuralist anxiety. it now has to grasp saussure's point that identities come about only as a result of difference that one term or subject is what it is only by excluding another. significantly, the child's first discovery of sexual differ ence occurs at about the same time that it is discovering language itself. the baby's cry is not really a sign but a signal: it indicates that it is cold, hungry or whatever. in gaining access to language, the small child unconsciously learns that a sign has meaning only by dint of its difference from other signs, and learns also that a sign presupposes the absence of the object it signifies. our language 'stands in' for objects: all language is in a way 'metaphorical', in that it substitutes itself for some direct, wordless possession of the object itself. its identity as a subject, it comes to perceive, is constituted by its relations of difference and similarity to the other sub jects around it. in accepting all of this, the child moves from the imaginary register into what lacan calls the 'symbolic order': the pre-given structure of social and sexual roles and relations which make up the family and society. in freud's own terms, it has successfully negotiated the painful passage through the oedipus complex. all, however, is not entirely well. for as we have seen, in freud the subject who emerges from this process is a 'split' one, radically divided between the conscious life of the ego and the unconscious, or repressed desire. it is this primary repression of desire which makes us what we are. the child must now resign itself to the fact that it can never have any direct access to reality, in particular to the now prohibited body of the mother. it has been banished from this 'full', imaginary possession into the 'empty' world of language. language is 'empty' because it is just an endless process of difference and absence: instead of being able to possess anything in its fullness, the child will now simply move from one signifier to another, along a linguistic chain which is potentially infinite. one signifier implies another, and that another, and so on ad infinitum: the 'metaphorical' world of the mirror has yielded ground to the 'metonymic' world of language. this potentially endless movement from one signifier to another is what lacan means by desire. all desire springs from a lack, which it strives continually to fill. human language works by such lack: the absence of the real objects which signs designate, the fact that words have meaning only by virtue of the absence and exclusion of others. to enter language, then, is to become a prey to desire: language, lacan remarks, is 'what hollows being into desire'. language divides up articulates the fullness of the imagin ary: we will now never be able to find rest in the single object, the final meaning, which will make sense of all the others. to enter language is to be severed from what lacan calls the 'real', that inaccessible realm which is always beyond the reach of signification, always outside the symbolic order. in particular, we are severed from the mother's body: after the oedipus crisis, we will never again be able to attain this precious object, even though we will spend all of our lives hunting for it. we can certainly never articulate the truth in some 'pure', unmediated way: lacan's own notoriously sybilline style, a language of the unconscious all in itself, is meant to suggest that language of the unconscious all in itself, is meant to suggest that any attempt to convey a whole, unblem ished meaning in speech or script is a pre-freudian illusion. in conscious life, we achieve some sense of ourselves as reasonably unified, coherent selves, and without this action would be impossible. but all this is merely at the 'imaginary' level of the ego, which is no more than the tip of the iceberg of the human subject known to psychoanalysis. the ego is function or effect of a subject which is always dispersed, never identical with itself, strung out along the chains of the discourses which constitute it. there is a radical split between these two levels of being a gap most dramatically exemplified by the act of referring to myself in a sentence. when i say 'tomorrow i will mow the lawn,' the'! ' which i pronounce is an immediately intelligible, fairly stable point of reference which belies the murky depths of the'! ' which does the pronouncing. the former'! ' is known to linguistic theory as the 'subject of the enunciation', the topic designated by my sentence; the latter'! ', the one who speaks the sentence, is the 'subject of the enunciating', the subject of the actual act of speaking. in the process of speaking and writing, these two '1's' seem to achieve a rough sort of unity; but this unity is of an imaginary kind. the 'subject of the enunciating', the actual speaking, writing human person, can never represent himself or herself fully in what is said: there is no sign which will, so to speak, sum up my entire being. i can only designate myself in language by a convenient pronoun. the pronoun'! part of the power of such texts thus lies in their suppression of what might be called their modes of production, how they got to be what they are; in this sense, they have a curious resemblance to the life of the human ego, which thrives by repressing the process of its own making. many modernist literary works, by contrast, make the 'act of enunciating', the process of their own production, part of their actual 'con like tent'. they do not barthes's 'natural' sign, but as the formalists would say 'lay bare the device' of their own composition. they do this so that they will not be mistaken for absolute truth so that the reader will be encouraged to reflect critically on the partial, particular ways they construct reality, and so to recognize how it might all have happened differently. the finest example of such literature is perhaps the drama of bertolt brecht; but many other instances are available in the modern arts, not least in film. think on the one hand of a typical hollywood film which simply uses the camera as a kind of 'window' or second eye through which the viewer contemplates reality which holds the camera steady and allows it simply to 'record' what is happening. watching such a film, we tend to forget that 'what is happening' is not in fact just 'happening', but is a highly complex construct, involving the actions and assumptions of a great many people. think then on the other hand of a cinematic sequence in which the camera darts restlessly, nervously from object to object, focusing first on one and then discarding it to pick out another, probing these objects compulsively from several different angles before trailing away, disconsolately as it were, to frame something else. this would not be a particularly avant-garde procedure; but even this highlights how, in contrast to the first type of film, the activity of the camera, the way is being 'foregrounded', so that we cannot as of mounting the episode, spectators simply stare through this obtrusive operation to the objects them selves. ' the 'content' of the sequence can be grasped as the product of a specific set of technical devices, not as a 'natural' or given reality which the camera is simply there to reflect. the 'signified' the 'meaning' of the sequence is a product of the 'signifier' the cinematic techniques rather than something which preceded it. how is it, the essay asks, that human subjects very often come to submit themselves to the dominant ideologies of their societies ideologies which althusser sees as vital to maintaining the power of a ruling class? by what mechanisms does this come about? althusser has sometimes been seen as a 'structuralist' marxist, in that for him human individuals are the prod uct of many different social determinants, and thus have no essential unity. as far as a science of human societies goes, such individuals can be studied simply as the functions, or effects, of this or that social structure as occupying a place in a mode of production, as a member of a specific social class, and so on. but this of course is not at all the way we actually experience ourselves. what althusser does, in other words, is to rethink the concept of ideology in terms of lacan's 'imaginary'. for the relation of an individual subject to society as a whole in althusser's theory is rather like the relation of the small child to his or her mirror-image in lacan's. in both cases, the human subject is supplied with a satisfyingly unified image of selfhood by identifying with an object which reflects this image back to it in a closed, narcissistic circle. in both cases, too, this image involves a misrecognition, since it idealizes the subject's real situation. the child is not actually as integrated as its image in the mirror suggests; i am not actually the coherent, autonomous, self generating subject i know myself to be in the ideological sphere, but the. 'decentred' function of several social determinants. duly enthralled by the image of myself i receive, i subject myself to it; and it is through this 'subjection' that i become a subject. most commentators would now agree that althusser's suggestive essay is seriously flawed. it seems to assume, for example, that ideology is little more than an oppressive force which subjugates us, without allowing sufficient space for the realities of ideological struggle: and it involves some rather serious misinterpretations of lacan. nevertheless, it is one attempt to show the relevance of lacanian theory to issues beyond the consulting room: that such a body of work has deep-seated implications it sees, rightly, for several fields beyond psychoanalysis itself. indeed, by reinterpreting freudianism in terms of language, a pre-eminently social activity, lacan permits us to explore the relations between the unconscious and human society. one way of describing his work is to say that he makes us recognize that the unconscious is not some kind of seething, tumultuous, private region 'inside' us, but an effect of our relations with one another. the unconscious is, so to speak, 'outside' rather than 'within' us or rather it exists 'between' us, as our relationships do. it is ready and waiting for us rather as our parents are; and we shall never wholly dominate it or subdue it to our own ends, just as we shall never be able entirely to shake off the dominant role which our parents play in our constitution. language, the unconscious, the parents, the symbolic order: these terms in lacan are not exactly synonymous, but they are intimately allied. they are sometimes spoken of by him as the 'other' as that which like language is always anterior to us and will always escape us, that which brought us into being as subjects in the first place but which always outruns our grasp. we have seen that for lacan our uncon scious desire is directed towards this other, in the shape of some ultimately gratifying reality which we can never have; but it is also true for lacan that our desire is in some way always received from the other too. if, as with walter morel, the father's work is especially exhausting and oppressive, his role in the family is likely to be further diminished: morel is reduced to establishing human contact with his children through his practical skills about the house. his lack of education, moreover, makes it difficult for him to articulate his feelings, a fact which further increases the distance between himself and his family. the fatiguing, harshly disciplined nature of the work process helps to create in him a domestic irritability and violence which drives the children deeper into their mother's arms, and which spurs on her jealous possessiveness of them. to compensate for his inferior status at work, the father struggles to assert a traditional male authority at home, thus estranging his children from him still further. but we can carry these considerations into 'form' itself into such matters as how the novel delivers and structures its narrative, how it delineates character, what narrative point of view it adopts. it seems evident, for example, that the text itself largely, though by no means entirely, identifies with and endorses paul's own viewpoint: since the narrative is seen chiefly through his eyes, we have no real source of testimony other than him. as paul moves into the foreground of the story, his father recedes into the background. the novel is also in general more 'inward' in its treatment of mrs morel than it is of her husband; indeed we might argue that it is organized in a way which tends to highlight her and obscure him, a formal device which reinforces the protagonist's own attitudes. on the other hand, there are aspects of the novel which would seem to run counter to this 'angled' presentation. as h. m. daleski has perceptively put it: 'the weight of hostile comment which lawrence directs against morel is balanced by the unconscious sympathy with which he is presented dramati cally, while the overt celebration of mrs morel is challenged by the harsh ness of her character in action. '4 in the terms we have used about lacan, the novel does not exactly say what it means or mean what it says. this itself can partly be accounted for in psychoanalytical terms: the boy's oedipal relation to his father is an ambiguous one, for the father is loved as well as uncon sciously hated as a rival, and the child will seek to protect the father from his own unconscious aggression towards him. another reason for this ambigu ity, however, is that on one level the novel sees very well that though paul must reject the narrowed, violent world of the miners for his venture into middle-class consciousness, such consciousness is by no means wholly to be admired. there is much that is dominative and life-denying as well as valuable in it, as we can see in the character of mrs morel. it is walter morel, so the text tells us, who has 'denied the god in him'; but it is hard to feel that this heavy authorial interpolation, solemn and obtrusive as it is, really earns its keep. for the very novel which tells us this also shows us the opposite. it shows us the ways in which morel is indeed still alive; it cannot stop us from seeing how the diminishing of him has much to do with its own narrative organization, turning as it does from him to his son; and it also shows us, intentionally or not, that even if morel has'denied the god in him' then the blame is ultimately to be laid not on him but on the predatory capitalism which can find no better use for him than as a cog in the wheel of production. paul himself, intent as he is on extricating himself from the father's world, cannot afford to confront these truths, and neither, explicitly, does the novel: in writing sons and lovers lawrence was not just writing about the working class but writing his way out of it. in reading sons and loverswith an eye to these aspects of the novel, we are constructing what may be called a 'sub-text' for the work a text which runs within it, visible at certain 'symptomatic' points of ambiguity, evasion or overemphasis, and which we as readers are able to 'write' even if the novel itself does not. all literary works contain one or more such sub-texts, and there is a sense in which they may be spoken of as the 'unconscious' of the work itself. the work's insights, as with all writing, are deeply related to its blindnesses: what it does not say, and how it does not say it, may be as important as what it articulates; what seems absent, marginal or ambivalent about it may provide a central clue to its meanings. we are not simply rejecting or inverting 'what the novel says', arguing, for example, that morel is the real hero and his wife the villain. paul's viewpoint is not simply invalid: his mother is indeed an incomparably richer source of sympathy than his father. psychoanalytical literary criticism can be broadly divided into four kinds, depending on what it takes as its object of attention. it can attend to the author of the work; to the work's contents; to its formal construction; or to the reader. most psychoanalytical criticism has been of the first two kinds, which are in fact the most limited and problematical. psychoanalysing the author is a speculative business, and runs into just the same kind of problems we examined when discussing the relevance of authorial 'intention' to works of literature. the psychoanalysis of 'content' commenting on the uncon scious motivations of characters, or on the psychoanalytical significance of objects or events in the text has a limited value, but, in the manner of the notorious hunt for the phallic symbol, is too often reductive. freud's own sporadic ventures into the field of art and literature were mainly in these two modes. the dream which is produced by this labour, the dream we actually remember, is termed by freud the 'mani fest content'. the dream, then, is not just the 'expression' or 'reproduction' of the unconscious: between the unconscious and the dream we have, a process of 'production' or transformation has intervened. the 'essence' of the dream, freud considers, is not the raw materials or 'latent content', but the dream-work itself: it is this 'practice' which is the object of his analysis. most of the literary theory we have examined so far in this book could be considered a form of 'secondary revision' of the literary text. in its obsessive pursuit of 'harmony', 'coherence', 'deep structure' or 'essential meaning', such theory fills in the text's gaps and smooths over its contradictions, domesticating its disparate aspects and defusing its conflicts. it does this so that the text may be, so to speak, more easily 'consumed' so that the path is made straight for the reader, who will not be ruffled by any unexplained irregularities. much literary scholarship in particular is resolutely devoted to this end, briskly 'resolving' ambiguities and staking the text down for the reader's untroubled inspection. an extreme example of such secondary revision, although one not altogether untypical of much critical interpreta tion, is the kind of account oft. s. much of the literary theory we have looked at also tends to view the literary work as an 'expression' or 'reflection' of reality: it enacts human experience, or embodies an author's intention, or its structures reproduce the structures of the human mind. freud's account of the dream, by con trast, enables us to see the work of literature not as a reflection but as a form of production. like the dream, language, other literary texts, ways of perceiving the world and transforms them by certain techniques into a product. the techniques by which this production is carried out are the various devices we know as 'literary form'. in working on its raw materials, the literary textwill tend to submit them to its own form of secondary revision: unless it is a 'revolutionary' text like finnegans wake, it will try to organize them into a reasonably coherent, consumable whole, even if, as with sons and lovers, it will not be always successful. to do this, it focuses in particular on what have been called 'symptomatic' places in the dream-text distortions, ambiguities, absence and elisions which may provide a specially valuable mode of access to the 'latent content', or unconscious drives, which have gone into its making. literary criticism, as we saw in the case of lawrence's novel, can do something similar: by attending to what may seem like evasions, ambivalences and points of intensity in the narrative words which do not get spoken, words which are it can spoken with unusual frequency, doublings and slidings of language begin to probe through the layers of secondary revision and expose some thing of the 'sub-text' which, the work both conceals and reveals. it can attend, in other words, not only to what the text says, but to how it toorks? two very different american critics indebted to freud are kenneth burke, who eclectically blends freud, marx and linguistics to produce his own suggestive view of the literary work as a form of symbolic action, and harold bloom, who has used the work of freud to launch one of the most daringly original literary theories of the past decade. what bloom does, in effect, is to rewrite literary history in terms of the oedipus complex. poets live anxiously in the shadow of a 'strong' poet who came before them, as sons are oppressed by their fathers; and any particular poem can be read as an attempt to escape this 'anxiety of influence' by its systematic remoulding of a previous poem. the poet, locked in oedipal rivalry with his castrating 'precursor', will seek to disarm that strength by entering it from within, writing in a way which revises, displaces and recasts the precursor poem; in this sense all poems can be read as rewritings of other poems, and as 'misreadings' or 'misprisions' of them, attempts to fend off their over whelming force so that the poet can clear a space for his own imaginative originality. every poet is 'belated', the last in a tradition; the strong poet is the one with the courage to acknowledge this belatedness and set about undermining the precursor's power. any poem, indeed, is nothing but such an undermining a series of devices, which can be seen both as rhetorical strategies and psychoanalytic defence mechanisms, for undoing and outdo ing another poem. the meaning of a poem is another poem. such a humanism will wage war with the 'serene linguistic nihilism' which bloom rightly discerns in much american deconstruction, turning from the mere endless undoing of determinate meaning to a vision of poetry as human will and affirmation. the strenuous, embattled, apocalyptic tone of much of his own writing, with its outlandish spawning of esoteric terms, is witness to the strain and desperateness of this enterprise. bloom's criticism starkly exposes the dilemma of the modern liberal or romantic humanist the fact that on the one hand no reversion to a serene, optimistic human faith is possible after marx, freud and post-structuralism, but that on the other hand any humanism which like bloom's has taken the agonizing pressures of such doctrines is bound to be fatally compromised and contaminated by them. bloom's epical battles of poetic giants retain the psychic splendour of a pre-freudian age, but have lost its innocence: they are domestic rows, scenes of guilt, envy, anxiety and aggression. no humanistic literary theory which overlooked such realities could offer itselfas reputably 'modern' at all; but any such theory which takes them on board is bound to be sobered and soured by them to the point where its own capacity to affirm becomes almost maniacally wilful. bloom advances far enough down the primrose path of american deconstruction to be able to scramble back to the heroically hu man only by a nietzschean appeal to the 'will to power' and 'will to persua sion' of the individual imagination which is bound to remain arbitrary and gestural. in this exclusively patriarchal world of fathers and sons, everything comes to centre with increasing rhetorical stridency on power, struggle, strength of will; criticism itself for bloom is just as much a form of poetry as poems are implicit literary criticism of other poems, and whether a critical reading 'succeeds' is in the end not at all a question of its truth-value but of the rhetorical force of the critic himself. this loss is distressing, but exciting as well: desire is stimulated by what we cannot quite possess, and this is one source of narrative satisfaction. if we could neverpossess it, however, our excitation might become intolerable and turn into unpleasure; so we must know that the object will be finally restored to us, that tom jones will return to paradise hall and hercule poirot will track down the murderer. our excita tion is gratifyingly released: our energies have been cunningly 'bound' by the suspenses and repetitions of the narrative only as a preparation for their pleasurable expenditure. " we have been able to tolerate the disappearance of the object because our unsettling suspense was all the time shot through by the secret knowledge that it would finally come home. fort has meaning only in relation to da. but, of course, vice versa too. once installed within the symbolic order, we cannot contemplate or possess any object without seeing it unconsciously in the light of its possible absence, knowing that its presence is in some way arbitrary and provisional. if the mother goes away then this is merely preparatory to her return, but when she is with us again we cannot forget the fact that she might always disappear, and perhaps always not return. classi cal narrative of the realist kind is on the whole a 'conservative' form, which slides our anxiety at absence under the comforting sign of presence; many modernist texts, such as those of brecht and beckett, remind us that what we are seeing might always have happened differently, or not happened at all. there is no death in the imaginary, since the world's continuing existence depends upon my life just as much as my life depends upon it; it is only by entering the symbolic order that we confront the truth that we can die, since the world's existence does not in fact depend upon us. as long as we remain in an imaginary realm of being we misrecognize our own identities, seeing them as fixed and rounded, and misrecognize reality as something immutable. we remain, in althusser's terms, in the grip of ideology, conforming to social reality as 'natural' rather than critically questioning how it, and ourselves, came to be constructed, and so could possibly be transformed. this rhythmic pattern can be seen as a form oflanguage, though it is not yet meaningful. for language as such to happen, this heterogeneous flow must be as it were chopped up, articulated into stable terms, so that in entering the symbolic order this 'semiotic' process is repressed. the repression, however, is not total: for the semiotic can still be discerned as a kind of pulsional pressure within language itself, in tone, rhythm, the bodily and material qualities of language, but also in con tradiction, meaninglessness, disruption, silence and absence. the semiotic is the 'other' of language which is none the less intimately entwined with it. because it stems from the pre-oedipal phase, it is bound up with the child's contact with the mother's body, whereas the symbolic, as we have seen, is associated with the law of the father. the semiotic is thus closely connected with femininity: but is by no means a language exclusive to women, for it arises from a pre-oedipal period which recognizes no distinctions of gender. the english-language writer who perhaps most strikingly exemplifies kristeva's theories is james joyce. " but aspects of it are also evident in the writings of virginia woolf, whose fluid, diffuse, sensuous style offers a resistance to the kind of male metaphysical world symbolized by the philoso pher mr ramsay in to the lighthouse. ramsay's world works by abstract truths, sharp . divisions and fixed essences: it is a patriarchal world, for the phallus is the symbol of sure, self-identical truth and is not to be challenged. modern society, as the post-structuralists would say, is 'phallocentric'; it is also, as we have seen, 'logocentric', believing that its discourses can yield us immediate access to the full truth and presence of things. jacques derrida has conflated these two terms to the compound 'phallogocentric', which we might roughly translate as 'cocksure'. it is this cocksureness, by which those who wield sexual and social power maintain their grip, that woolf's 'semiotic' fiction could be seen as challenging. this raises the vexed question, much debated in feminist literary theory, as to whether there is a specifically feminine mode of writing. kristeva's 'semiotic' is not, as we have seen, inherently feminine: indeed most of the 'revolutionary' writers she discusses are male. but because it is closely related to the mother's body, and because there are complex psychoanalyti cal reasons for holding that women retain a closer relationship to that body than men do, one might expect such writing to be on the whole more typical of women. some feminists have sharply rejected this theory, fearing that it simply reinvents some 'female essence' of a non-cultural kind, and perhaps also suspecting that it may be no more than a high-falutin version of the sexist view that women babble. neither of these beliefs is in my view necessarily implied by kristeva's theory. it is important to see that the semiotic is not an alternative to the symbolic order, a language one could speak instead of 'normal' discourse: it is rather a process within our conven in tional sign-systems, which questions . for the feminine is at once constructed within the symbolic order, like any gender, and yet is relegated to its margins, judged inferior to masculine power. the woman is both 'inside' and 'outside' male society, both a romantically idealized member of it and a victimized outcast. she is sometimes what stands between man and chaos, and sometimes the embodiment of chaos itself. this is why she troubles the neat categories of such a regime, blurring its well-defined boundaries. women are represented within male-governed society, fixed by sign, image, meaning, yet because they are also the 'negative' of that social order there is always in them something which is left over, superfluous, unrepresentable, which refuses to be figured there. on this view, the feminine which is a mode of being and discourse not necessarily identical with women signifies a force within society which opposes it. and this has its obvious political implications in the form of the women's movement. the political correlative of kristeva's own theories of a semiotic force which disrupts all stable meanings and institutioris would appear to be some kind of anarchism. if such an unending overthrow of all fixed structure is an inadequate response in the political realm, so too in the theoretical sphere is the assumption that a literary text which undermines meaning is ipso facto 'revolutionary'. it is quite possible for a text to do this in the name of some right-wing irrationalism, or to do it in the name of nothing much at all. kristeva's argument is dangerously formalistic and easily caricaturable: will reading mallarme bring down the bourgeois state? she does not, of course, claim that it will; but she pays too little attention to the political content of a text, the historical conditions in which its overturn ing of the signified is carried out, and the historical conditions in which all of this is interpreted and used. nor is the dismantling of the unified subject a revolutionary gesture in itself. kristeva rightly perceives that bourgeois individualism thrives on such a fetish, but her work tends to halt at the point where the subject has been fractured and thrown into contradiction. for brecht, by contrast, the dismantling of our given identities through art is inseparable from the practice of producing a new kind of human subject altogether, which would need to know not only internal fragmentation but social solidarity, which would experience not only the gratifications of libid inallanguage but the fulfilments of fighting political injustice. there is one simple and evident connection between psychoanalysis and literature which is worth touching on in conclusion. rightly or wrongly, freudian theory regards the fundamental motivation of all human behaviour as the avoidance of pain and the gaining of pleasure: it is a form of what is philosophically known as hedonism. the reason why the vast majority of people read poems, novels and plays is because they find them pleasurable. this fact is so obvious that it is hardly ever mentioned in universities. it is, admittedly, difficult to spend some years studying literature in most univer sities and still find it pleasurable at the end: many university literature courses seem to be constructed to prevent this from happening, and those who emerge still able to enjoy literary works might be considered either heroic or perverse. as we saw earlier in this book, the fact that reading literature is generally an enjoyable pursuit posed a serious problem for those who first established it as an academic 'discipline': it was necessary to make the whole affair rather more intimidating and dispiriting, if 'english' was to earn its keep as a reputable cousin of classics. meanwhile, in the world thrillers and historical outside, people carried on devouring romances, novels without the faintest idea that the halls of academia were beset by these anxieties. it is a symptom of this curious situation that the word 'pleasure' has trivializing overtones; it is certainly a less serious word than 'serious'. to say that we find a poem intensely enjoyable seems somehow a less acceptable critical statement than to claim that we thought it morally profound. it is difficult not to feel that comedy is a more superficial business than tragedy. between the cambridge roundheads who speak dauntingly of 'moral seri ousness', and the oxford cavaliers who find george eliot 'amusing', there seems little space for a more adequate theory of pleasure. but psychoanalysis is among other things precisely this: its bristling intellectual armoury is bent on the exploration of such fundamental matters as what people find gratify ing and what they do not, how they can be relieved of their misery and made more happy. if freudianism is a science, concerned with an impersonal analysis of psychical forces, it is a science committed to the emancipation of human beings from what frustrates their fulfilment and well-being. this is not to suggest that psychoanalysis alone can provide the key to problems of literary value and pleasure. we like or dislike certain pieces of language not only because of the unconscious play of drives they induce in us, but because of certain conscious commitments and predilections we share. there is a complex interaction between these two regions, which needs to be demonstrated in the detailed examination of a particular literary text. " the problems of literary value and pleasure would seem to lie some where at the juncture of psychoanalysis, linguistics and ideology, and little work has been done here as yet. we know enough, however, to suspect that it is a good deal more possible to say why someone enjoys certain arrange ments of words than conventional literary criticism has believed. more importantly, it is possible that by a fuller understanding of the pleasures and displeasures readers reap from literature, a modest but signifi cant light may be cast on some rather more pressing problems of happiness and misery. one of the richest traditions to have emerged from freud's own writings is one very far removed from the preoccupations of a lacan: it is a form of political-psychoanalytical work engaged with the question of hap pi ness as it affects whole societies. prominent in this lineage has been the work of the german psychoanalyst wilhelm reich, and the writings of herbert marcuse and other members of the so-called frankfurt school of social enquiry. " we live in a society which on the one hand pressurizes us into the pursuit of instant gratification, and on the other hand imposes on whole sectors of the population an endless deferment of fulfilment. the spheres of economic, political and cultural life become 'eroticized', thronged with se ductive commodities and flashy images, while the sexual. relationships be tween men and women grow diseased and disturbed. indeed literary theory is less an object of intellectual enquiry in its own right than a particular perspective in which to view the history of our times. nor should this be in the least cause for surprise. for any body of theory concerned with human meaning, value, language, feeling and experience will inevitably engage with broader, deeper beliefs about the nature of human individuals and societies, problems of power and sexuality, interpretations of past history, versions of the present and hopes for the future. it is not a matter of regretting that this is so of blaming literary theory for being caught up with such questions, as opposed to some 'pure' literary theory which might be absolved from them. such 'pure' literary theory is an academic myth: some of the theories we have examined in this book are nowhere more clearly ideological than in their attempts to ignore history and politics altogether. it is not only, however, a matter of such biases being covert or uncon scious. sometimes, as with matthew arnold, they are neither, and at other times, as with t. s. eliot, they are certainly covert but not in the least unconscious. it is not literary theory is political which is objectionable, nor just the fact that its frequent obliviousness of this tends to mislead: what is really objectionable is the nature of its politics. that objec tion can be briefly summarized by stating that the great majority of the literary theories outlined in this book have strengthened rather than chal lenged the assumptions of the power-system some of whose present-day consequences i have just described. i do not mean by this that matthew arnold supported nuclear weapons, or that there are not a good many literary theorists who would not dissent in one way or another from a system in which some grow rich on profits from armaments while others starve in the street. literature, we are told, is vitally engaged with the living situations of men and women: it is concrete rather than abstract, displays life in all its rich variousness, and rejects barren conceptual enquiry for the feel and taste of what it is to be alive. the story of modern literary theory, paradoxically, is the narrative of a flight from such realities into a seemingly endless range of alternatives: the poem itself, the organic society, eternal verities, the imagi nation, the structure of the human mind, myth, language and so on. such a flight from real history is in part understandable as a reaction to the anti quarian, historically reductionist criticism which held sway in the nine teenth century; but the extremism of this reaction has been nevertheless striking. it is indeed the extremism of literary theory, its obstinate, perverse, endlessly resourceful refusal to countenance social and historical realities, which most strikes a student of its documents, even though 'extremism' is a term more commonly used of those who would seek to call attention to literature's role in actual life. even in the act of fleeing modern ideologies, however, literary theory reveals its often unconscious complicity with them, betraying its elitism, sexism or individualism in the very 'aesthetic' or 'unpolitical' language it finds natural to use of the literary text. it assumes, in the main, that at the centre of the world is the contemplative individual self, bowed over its book, striving to gain touch with experience, truth, reality, history or tradition. other things matter too, of course this indi vidual is in personal relationship with others, and we are always much more but it is notable how often such individual consciousness, set than readers in its small circle of relationships, ends up as the touchstone of all else. the further we move from the rich inwardness of the personal life, of which literature is the supreme exemplar, the more drab, mechanical and imper sonal existence becomes. any attempt to define literary theory in terms of a distinctive method is doomed to failure. literary theory is supposed to reflect on the nature of literature and literary criticism. but just think of how many methods are involved in literary criticism. you can discuss the poet's asthmatic childhood, or examine her peculiar use of syntax; you can detect the rustling of silk in the hissing of the s's, explore the phenomenology of reading, relate the literary work to the state of the class-struggle or find out how many copies it sold. these methods have nothing whatsoever of significance in common. in fact they have more in common with other 'disciplines' linguistics, history, sociology and so on than they have with each other. methodologically speaking, literary criticism is a non-subject. if literary theory is a kind of 'metacriticism', a critical reflection on criticism, then it follows that it too is a non-subject. it is perhaps fortunate that this way of proceeding has not yet infiltrated medicine or aeronautical engineer ing; but even so one should not take this modest disowning of method altogether seriously, since what gliminers and hunches you have will depend on a latent structure of assumptions often quite as stubborn as that of any structuralist. it is notable that such 'intuitive' criticism, which relies not on 'method' but on 'intelligent sensitivity', does not often seem to intuit, say, the presence of ideological values in literature. yet there is no reason, on its own reckoning, why it should not. some traditional critics would appear to hold that other people subscribe to theories while they prefer to read litera ture 'straightforwardly'. no theoretical or ideological predilections, in other words, mediate between themselves and the text: to describe george eliot's later world as one of 'mature resignation' is not ideological, whereas to claim that it reveals evasion and compromise is. it is therefore difficult to engage such critics in debate about ideological preconceptions, since the power of ideology over them is nowhere more marked than in their honest belief that their readings are 'innocent'. it was leavis who was being 'doctrinal' in attacking milton, not c. s. lewis in defending him; it is feminist critics who insist on confusing literature with politics by examining fictional images of gender, not conventional critics who are being political by arguing that richardson's clarissa is largely responsible for her own rape. northrop frye and the new critics thought that they had pulled off a synthesis of the two, but how many students ofliterature today read them? liberal humanism has dwindled to the impotent conscience of bourgeois society, gentle, sensitive and ineffectual; structuralism has already more or less vanished into the literary museum. the impotence ofliberal humanism is a symptom of its essentially contra dictory relationship to modern capitalism. for although it forms part of the 'official' ideology of such society, and the 'humanities' exist to reproduce it, the social order within which it exists has in one sense very little time for it at all. who is concerned with the uniqueness of the individual, the imperish able truths of the human condition or the sensuous textures of lived experi ence in the foreign office or the boardroom of standard oil? capitalism's reverential hat-tipping to the arts is obvious hypocrisy, except when it can hang them on its walls as a sound investment. yet capitalist states have continued to direct funds into higher education humanities departments, and though such departments are usually the first in line for savage cutting when capitalism enters on one of its periodic crises, it is doubtful that it is only hypocrisy, a fear of appearing in its true philistine colours, which compels this grudging support. the truth is that liberal humanism is at once largely ineffectual, and the best ideology of the 'human' that present bour geois society can muster. the 'unique individual' is indeed important when it comes to defending the business entrepreneur's right to make profit while throwing men and women out of work; the individual must at all costs have the 'right to choose', provided this means the right to buy one's child an expensive private education while other children are deprived of their school meals, rather than the rights of women to decide whether to have children in the first place. the 'imperishable truths of the human condition' include such verities as freedom and democracy, the essences of which are embodied in our particular way oflife. the 'sensuous textures oflived experience' can be roughly translated as reacting from the gut judging according to habit, prejudice and 'common sense', rather than according to some inconvenient, 'aridly theoretical' set of debatable ideas. there is, after all, room for the humanities yet, much as those who guarantee our freedom and democracy despise them. for another thing, if you allow a lot of young people to do nothing for a few years but read books and talk to each other then it is possible that, given certain wider historical circumstances, they will not only begin to question some of the values transmitted to them but begin to interrogate the authority by which they are transmitted. there is of course no harm in students questioning the values conveyed to them: indeed it is part of the very meaning of higher education that they should do so. independent thought, critical dissent and reasoned dialectic are part of the very stuff of a humane education; hardly anyone, as i commented earlier, will demand that your essay on chaucer or baudelaire arrives inexorably at certain pre-set conclusions, all that is being demanded is that you manipulate a particular language in acceptable ways. becoming certificated by the state as proficient in literary studies is a matter of being able to talk and write in certain ways. it is this which is being taught, examined and certificated, not what you is thinkable will of course be though what personally think or believe, constrained by the language itself. you can think or believe what you want, as long as you can speak this particular language. nobody is especially concerned about what you say, with what extreme, moderate, radical or conservative positions you adopt, provided that they are compatible with, and can be articulated within, a specific form of discourse. it is just that certain meanings and positions will not be articulable within it. literary studies, in other words, are a question of the signifier, not of the signified. those employed to teach you this form of discourse will remember whether or not you were able to speak it proficiently long after they have forgotten what you said. some of those hottest in their defence of the canon have from time to time demonstrated how the discourse can be made to operate on 'non-literary' writing. this, indeed, is the embarrassment of literary criticism, that it defines for itself a special object, literature, while existing as a set of discursive techniques which have no reason to stop short at that object at all. if you have nothing better to do at a party you can always tryon a literary critical analysis of it, speak of its styles and genres, discriminate its significant nuances or formalize its sign-systems. such a 'text' can prove quite as rich as one of the canonical works, and critical dissections of it quite as ingenious as those of shakespeare. so either literary criticism confesses that it can handle parties just as well as it can shakespeare, in which case it is in danger oflosing its identity along with its object; or it agrees that parties may be interestingly analysed provided that this is called something else: ethnomethodology or hermeneutical phenomenology, perhaps. its own con cern is with literature, because literature is more valuable and rewarding than any of the other texts on which the critical discourse might operate. the disadvantage of this claim is that it is plainly untrue: many films and works of philosophy are considerably more valuable than much that is included in the 'literary canon'. it is not that they are valuable in different ways: they could present objects of value in the sense that criticism defines that term. their exclusion from what is studied is not because they are not 'amenable' to the discourse: it is a question of the arbitrary authority of the literary institution. another reason why literary criticism cannot justify its self-limiting to certain works by an appeal to their 'value' is that criticism is part of a literary institution which constitutes these works as valuable in the first place. it is not only parties that need to be made into worthwhile literary objects by being treated in specific ways, but also shakespeare. shakespeare was not great literature lying conveniently to hand, which the literary institution then happily discovered: he is great literature because the institution consti tutes him as such. this does not mean that he is not 'really' great literature that it is just a matter of people's opinions about him because there is no such thing as literature which is 'really' great, or 'really' anything, independ ently of the ways in which that writing is treated within specific forms of social and institutional life. there are an indefinite number of ways of discussing shakespeare, but not all of them count as literary critical. for though i have said that critical discourse has no determinate signified, there are certainly a great many ways of talking about literature which it excludes, and a great many discursive moves and strategies which it disqualifies as invalid, illicit, non-critical, nonsense. its apparent generosity at the level of the signified is matched only by its sectarian intolerance at the level of the signifier. regional dialects of the discourse, so to speak, are acknowledged and sometimes tolerated, but you must not sound as though you are speaking another language altogether. to do so is to recognize in the sharpest way that critical discourse is power. to be on the inside of the discourse itself is to be blind to this power, for what is more natural and non-dominative than to speak one's own tongue? the power of critical discourse moves on several levels. it is the power of 'policing' language of determining that certain statements must be ex cluded because they do not conform to what is acceptably sayable. it is the power of policing writing itself, classifying it into the 'literary' and 'non literary', the enduringly great and the ephemerally popular. it is the power of authority vis-a-vis others the power-relations between those who define and preserve the discourse, and those who are selectively admitted to it. it is the power of certificating or non-certificating those who have been judged to speak the discourse better or worse. finally, it is a question of the power relations between the literary-academic institution, where all of this occurs, and the ruling power-interests of society at large, whose ideological needs will be served and whose personnel will be reproduced by the preservation and controlled extension of the discourse in question. this, i would suggest, is the best possible thing for it to do. the final logical move in a process which began by recognizing that literature is an illusion is to recognize that literary theory is an illusion too. it is not of course an illusion in the sense that i have invented the various people i have discussed in this book: northrop frye really did exist, and so did f. r. leavis. it is an illusion first in the sense that literary theory, as i hope to have shown, is really no more than a branch of social ideologies, utterly without any unity or identity which would adequately distinguish it from philo sophy, linguistics, psychology, cultural and sociological thought; and sec ondly in the sense that the one hope it has of distinguishing itself clinging to an object named literature is misplaced. we must conclude, then, that this book is less an introduction than an obituary, and that we have ended by burying the object we sought to unearth. my intention, in other words, is not to counter the literary theories i have . critically examined in this book with a literary theory of my own, which would claim to be more politically acceptable. any reader who has been expectantly waiting for a marxist theory has obviously not been reading this book with due attention. there are indeed marxist and feminist theories of literature, which in my opinion are more valuable than any of the theories discussed here, and to which the reader may like to refer in the bibliography. but this is not exactly the point. the point is whether it is possible to speak of 'literary theory' without perpetuating the illusion that literature exists as a distinct, bounded object of knowledge, or whether it is not preferable to draw the practical consequences of the fact that literary theory can handle bob dylan just as well as john milton. but is this not to extend the boundaries of literary theory to a point where any kind of particularity is lost? would not a 'theory of discourse' run into just the same problems of methodology and object of study which we have seen in the case of literary studies? after all, there are any number of discourses and any number of ways of studying them. what would be specific to the kind of study i have in mind, however, would be its concern for the kinds of effects which discourses produce, and how they produce them. reading a zoology textbook to find out about giraffes is part of studying zoology, but reading it to see how its discourse is structured and organized, and examining what kind of effects these forms and devices produce in particular readers in actual situations, is a different kind of project. it is, in fact, probably the oldest form of 'literary criticism' in the world, known as rhetoric. rhetoric, which was the received form of critical analysis all the way from ancient society to the eighteenth century, examined the way discourses are constructed in order to achieve certain effects. it was not worried about whether its objects of enquiry were speaking or writing, poetry or philosophy, fiction or historiography: its horizon was nothing less than the field of discursive practices in society as a whole, and its particular interest lay in grasping such practices as forms of power and performance. this is not to say that it ignored the truth-value of the discourses in ques tion, since this could often be crucially relevant to the kinds of effect they produced in their readers and listeners. rhetoric in its major phase was neither a 'humanism', concerned in some intuitive way with people's ex perience of language, nor a 'formalism', preoccupied simply with analysing linguistic devices. like all the best radical positions, then, mine is a thoroughly traditionalist one. i wish to recall literary criticism from certain fashionable, new-fangled ways of thinking it has been seduced by 'literature' as a specially privileged object, the 'aesthetic' as separable from social determinants, and so on and return it to the ancient paths which it has abandoned. although my case is thus reactionary, i do not mean that we should revive the whole range of ancient rhetorical terms and substitute these for modern critical language. we do not need to do this, since there are enough concepts contained in the literary theories examined in this book to allow us at least to make a start. rhetoric, or discourse theory, shares with formalism, structuralism and semiotics an interest in the formal devices of language, but like reception theory is also concerned with how these devices are actually effective at the point of 'consumption'; its preoccupation with discourse as a form of power and desire can learn much from deconstruction and psychoanalytical theory, and its belief that discourse can be a humanly transformative affair shares a good deal with liberal humanism. the fact that 'literary theory' is an illusion does not mean that we cannot retrieve from it many valuable concepts for a different kind of discursive practice altogether. there was, of course, a reason why rhetoric bothered to analyse dis courses. it did not analyse them just because they were there, any more than most forms of literary criticism today examine literature just for the sake of it. rhetoric wanted to find out the most effective ways of pleading, persuad ing and debating, and rhetoricians studied such devices in other people's language in order to use them more productively in their own. it was, as we would say today, a 'creative' as well as a 'critical' activity: the word 'rhetoric' covers both the practice of effective discourse and the science of it. sim ilarly, there must be a reason why we would consider it worthwhile to develop a form of study which would look at the various sign-systems and signifying practices in our own society, all the way from moby dick to the muppet show, from dryden and jean-luc godard to the portrayal of women in advertisements and the rhetorical techniques of government re ports. all theory and knowledge, as i have argued previously, is 'interested', in the sense that you can always ask why one should bother to develop it in the first place. one striking weakness of most formalist and structuralist criticism is that it is unable to answer this question. the structuralist really does examine sign-systems because they happen to be there, or if this seems indefensible is forced into some rationale studying our modes of sense making will deepen our critical self-awareness which is not much different from the standard line of the liberal humanists. the strength of the liberal humanist case, by contrast, is that it is able to say why dealing with literature is worth while. its answer, as we have seen, is roughly. that it makes you a better person. this is also the weakness of the liberal humanist case. liberal humanism is a suburban moral ideology, limited in practice to largely interpersonal matters. it is stronger on adultery than on armaments, and its valuable concern with freedom, democracy and individual rights are simply not concrete enough. its view of democracy, for example, is the abstract one of the ballot box, rather than a specific, living and practical democracy which might also somehow concern the operations of the for eign office and standard oil. its view of individual freedom is similarly abstract: the freedom of any particular individual is crippled and parasitic as long as it depends on the futile labour and active oppression of others. literature may protest against such conditions or it may not, but it is only possible in the first place because of them. as the german critic walter benjamin put it: 'there is no cultural document that is not at the same time a record of barbarism. '2 socialists are those who wish to draw the full, concrete, practical applications of the abstract notions of freedom and de mocracy to which liberal humanism subscribes, taking them at their word when they draw attention to the 'vividly particular'. it is for this reason that many western socialists are restless with the liberal humanist opinion of the tyrannies in eastern europe, feeling that these opinions simply do not go far enough: what would be necessary to bring down such tyrannies would not be just more free speech, but a workers' revolution against the state. what it means to be a 'better person', then, must be concrete and practical that is to say, concerned with people's political situations as a whole rather than narrowly abstract, concerned only with the immediate interper sonal relations which can be abstracted from this concrete whole. it must be a question of political and not only of 'moral' argument: that is to say, it must be genuine moral argument, which sees the relations between individual qualities and values and our whole material conditions of existence. political argument is not an alternative to moral preoccupations: it is those preoccu pations taken seriously in their full implications. but the liberal humanists are right to see that there is a point in studying literature, and that this point is not itself, in the end, a literary one. what they are arguing, although this way of putting it would grate harshly on their ears, is that literature has a use. few words are more offensive to literary ears than 'use', evoking as it does paperclips and hair-dryers. we may not use moby dick to learn how to hunt whales, but we 'get something out of it' even so. every literary theory presupposes a certain use of literature, even if what you get out of it is its utter uselessness. liberal humanist criticism is not wrong to use literature, but wrong to deceive itself that it does not. it uses it to further certain moral values, which as i hope to have shown are in fact indissociable from certain ideological ones, and in the that it reads the texts end imply a particular form of politics. it is not 'disinterestedly' and then places what it has read in the service of its values: the values govern the actual reading process itself, inform what sense criti cism makes of the works it studies. i am not going to argue, then, for a 'political criticism' which would read literary texts in the light of certain values which are related to political beliefs and actions; all criticism does this. the idea that there are 'non-political' forms of criticism is simply a myth which furthers certain political uses of literature all the more effec tively. the difference between a 'political' and 'non-political' criticism is just the difference between the prime minister and the monarch: the latter furthers certain political ends by pretending not to, while the former makes no bones about it. it is always better to be honest in these matters. the difference between a conventional critic who speaks of the 'chaos of experi ence' in conrad or woolf, and the feminist who examines those writers' images of gender, is not a distinction between non-political and political criticism. it is a distinction between different forms of politics between those who subscribe to the doctrine that history, society and human reality as a whole are fragmentary, arbitrary and directionless, and those who have other interests which imply alternative views about the way the world is. there is no way of settling the question of which politics is preferable in literary critical terms. you simply have to argue about politics. for why should it be worth doing this? liberal humanist critics are not merely out for a more complete account of literature: they wish to discuss literature in ways which will deepen, enrich and extend our lives. socialist and feminist critics are quite at one with them on this: it is just that they wish to point out that such deepening and enriching entails the trans formation of a society divided by class and gender. they would like the liberal humanist to draw the full implications of his or her position. if the liberal humanist disagrees, then this is a political argument, not an argument about whether one is 'using' literature or not. discourses, sign systems and signifying practices of all kinds, from film and television to fiction and the languages of natural science, produce effects, shape forms of consciousness and unconsciousness, which are closely related to the main tenance or transformation of our existing systems of power. they are thus closely related to what it means to be a person. indeed 'ideology' can be taken to indicate no more than this connection the link or nexus between discourses and power. once we have seen this, then the questions of theory and method may be allowed to appear in a new light. it is not a matter of starting from certain theoretical or methodological problems: it is a matter of starting from what we want to do, and then seeing which methods and theories will best help us to achieve these ends. deciding on your strategy will not predetermine which methods and objects of study are most valuable. as far as the object of study goes, what you decide to examine depends very much on the practical situation. any method or theory which will contribute to the strategic goal of human emancipa through the socialist transforma tion, tion of society, is acceptable. structuralism, semiotics, psychoanalysis, . deconstruction, reception theory and so on: all of these approaches, and others, have their valuable insights which may be put to use. not all literary theories, however, are likely to prove amenable to the strategic goals in question: there are several examined in this book which seem to me highly unlikely to do so. what you choose and reject theoretically, then, depends upon what you are practically trying to do. this has always been the case with literary criticism: it is simply that it is often very reluctant to realize the fact. in any academic study we select the objects and methods of procedure which we believe the most important, and our assessment of their impor tance is governed by frames of interest deeply rooted in our practical forms of social life, radical critics are no different in this respect: it is just that they have a set of social priorities with which most people at present tend to disagree. this is why they are commonly dismissed as 'ideological', because 'ideology' is always a way of describing other people's interests rather than one's own. no theory or method, in any case, will have merely one strategic use. they can be mobilized in a variety of different strategies for a variety of ends. but not all methods will be equally amenable to particular ends. it is a matter of finding out, not of assuming from the start that a single method or theory will do. one reason why i have not ended this book with an account of socialist or feminist literary theory is that i believe such a move might encourage the reader to make what the philosophers call a 'category mistake'. it might mislead people into thinking that 'political criticism' was another sort of critical approach from those i have discussed, different in its assumptions but essentially the same kind . of thing. since i have made clear my view that all criticism is in some sense political, and since people tend to give the word 'political' to criticism whose politics disagrees with their own, this cannot be so. i say 'goals', because it should not be thought that this form of criticism has only one. there are many goals to be achieved, and many ways of achieving them. in some situations the most productive procedure may be to explore how the signifying systems of a 'literary' text produce certain ideological effects; or it may be a matter of doing the same with a hollywood film. such projects may prove particularly important in teaching cultural studies to children; but it may also be valuable to use literature to foster in them a sense of linguistic potential denied to them by their social conditions. there are 'utopian' uses of literature of this kind, and a rich tradition of such utopian thought which should not be airily dismissed as 'idealist'. the active enjoyment of cultural artefacts should not, however, be relegated to the primary school, leaving older students with the potentially the grimmer business of analysis. pleasure, enjoyment, transformative effects of discourse is quite as 'proper' a topic for 'higher' study as is the setting of puritan tracts in the discursive formations of the seventeenth century. on other occasions what might prove more useful will not be the criticism or enjoyment of other people's discourse but the pro duction of one's own. here, as with the rhetorical tradition, studying what other people have done may help. you may want to stage your own signify ing practices to enrich, combat, modify or transform the effects which others' practices produce. within all of this varied activity, the study of what is currently termed 'literature' will have its place. but it should not be taken as an a priori is currently termed 'literature' will always and assumption that what everywhere be the most important focus of attention. such dogmatism has no place in the field of cultural study. nor are the texts now dubbed 'literature' likely to be perceived and defined as they are now, once they are returned to the broader and deeper discursive formations of which they are part. they will be inevitably 'rewritten', recycled, put to different uses, inserted into different relations and practices. they always have been, of course; but one effect of the word 'literature' is to prevent us from recogniz ing this fact. but this priority cannot mean refusing to contemplate how we might better organize literary studies in the longer term. the ideological effects of such departments lie not only in the particular values they dissemi nate, but in their implicit and actual dislocation of 'literature' from other cultural and social practices. the churlish admission of such practices as literary 'background' need not detain us: 'background', with its static, dis tancing connotations, tells its own story. whatever would in the long term replace such departments and the proposal is a modest one, for such experiments are already under way in certain areas of higher education would centrally involve education in the various theories and methods of cultural analysis. the fact that such education is not routinely provided by many existing departments of literature, or is provided 'optionally' or mar ginally, is one of their most scandalous and farcical features. ) the genteel amateurism which regards criticism as some spontaneous sixth sense has not only thrown many students of literature into understandable confusion for many decades, but serves to consolidate the authority of those in power. if criticism is no more than a knack, like being able to whistle and hum different tunes simultaneously, then it is at once rare enough to be ,preserved in the hands of an elite, while 'ordinary' enough to require no stringent theoretical justification. exactly the same pincer movement is at work in english 'ordinary language' philosophy. but the answer is not to replace such dishevelled amateurism with a well-groomed professionalism intent on justifying itself to the disgusted taxpayer. such professionalism, as we have seen, is equally bereft of any social validation of its activities, since it cannot say why it should bother with literature at all other than to tidy it up, drop texts into their appropriate categories and then move over into marine biology. if the point of criticism is not to interpret literary works but to master in some disinterested spirit the underlying sign-systems which generate them, what is criticism to do once it has achieved this mastery, which will hardly take a lifetime and probably not much more than a few years? those who work in the field of cultural practices are unlikely to mistake their activity as utterly central. men and women do not live by culture alone, the vast majority of them throughout history have been deprived of the chance of living by it at all, and those few who are fortunate enough to live by it now are able to do so because of the labour of those who do not. any cultural or critical theory which does not begin from this single most impor tant fact, and hold it steadily in mind in its activities, is in my view unlikely to be worth very much. there is no document of culture which is not also a record of barbarism. but even in societies which, like our own as marx reminded us, have no time for culture, there are times and places when it suddenly becomes newly relevant, charged with a significance beyond itself. four such major. moments are evident in our own world. culture, in the lives of nations struggling for their independence from imperialism, has a meaning quite remote from the review pages of the sunday newspapers. imperialism is not only the exploitation of cheap labour-power, raw materi als and easy markets but the uprooting of languages and customs not just the imposition of foreign armies, but of alien ways of experiencing. it manifests itself not only in company balance-sheets and in: airbases, but can be tracked to the most intimate roots of speech and signification. in such situations, which are not all a thousand miles from our own doorstep, culture is so vitally bound up with one's common identity that there is no need to argue for its relation to political struggle. it is arguing against it which would seem incomprehensible. the third area in question is the 'culture industry'. while literary critics have been cultivating sensibility in a minority, large segments of the media have been busy trying to devastate it in the majority; yet it is still presumed that studying, say, gray and collins is inherently more important than examining television or the popular press. such a project differs from the two i have outlined already in its essentially defensive character: it repre sents a critical reaction to someone else's cultural ideology rather than an appropriation ofculture for one's own ends. yet is is a vital project neverthe less, which must not be surrendered to a melancholic left or right mytho logy of the media as impregnably monolithic. we know that people do not after all believe all that they see and read; but we also need to know much more than we do about the role such effects play in their general conscious ness, even though such critical study should be seen, politically, as no more than a holding operation. the fourth and final area is that of the strongly emergent movement of working-class writing. silenced for generations, taught to regard literature as a coterie activity beyond their grasp, working people over the past decade in britain have been actively organizing to find their own literary styles and voices. " the worker writers' movement is almost unknown to academia, and has not been exactly encouraged by the cultural organs of the state; but it is one sign of a significant break from the dominant relations of literary production. community and cooperative publishing enterprises are associated projects, concerned not simply with a literature wedded to alternative social values, but with one which challenges and changes the existing social relations between writers, publishers, readers and other literary workers. it is because such ventures interrogate the ruling definitions of literature that they cannot so easily be incorporated by a literary institu tion quite happy to welcome sons and lovers, and even, from time to time, robert tressell. this book was written in 1982, at the watershed between two very different decades. if it could not anticipate what was to come after, neither could it grasp what had already happened in literary theory in the light of where it was to lead. understanding is always in some sense retrospective, which is what hegel meant by remarking that the owl of minerva flies only at night. the afterlife of a phenomenon is part of its meaning, but this is a meaning opaque to those around at the time. we know more about the french revolution than robespierre did, namely that it eventually led to a restora tion of the monarchy. if history moves forward, knowledge of it travels backwards, so that in writing of our own recent past we are continually meeting ourselves coming the other way. what was perhaps most in question was the assumption that literature embodied universal value, and this intellectual crisis was closely linked to changes in the social composition of the universities themselves. students had traditionally been expected, when encountering a literary text, to put their own particular histories temporarily on ice, and judge it from the vantage-point of some classless, genderless, non-ethnic, disinterested uni versal subject. this was an easy enough operation to pull off when those individual histories sprang from roughly the same kind of social world; but it was becoming much less apparent to those from ethnic or working-class backgrounds, or those from sexually dispossessed groups, that these suppos edly universal values were in any real sense theirs. it is no wonder, then, that the russian formalists, french structuralists and german reception theor ists were suddenly in fashion; for all of these approaches 'denaturalized' certain traditional literary assumptions in ways congenial to the academic newcomers. the idea of a 'science of literature' was suddenly on the agenda, an enterprise which for the human ists seemed as grotesquely self-contradictory as a science of sneezing. the structuralist confidence in rigorous analysis and universal laws was appro priate to a technological age, lifting that scientific logic into the protected enclave of the human spirit itself, as freud had done somewhat similarly with psychoanalysis. but in doing so it offered, contradictorily, to under mine one of the ruling belief systems of that society, which could be roughly characterized as liberal humanist, and so was radical and technocratic to gether. reception theory took the most apparently natural and spontaneous of activities reading a book and showed just how many learnt operations and questionable cultural assumptions it involved. much of this rather brash theoretical buoyancy was soon to be dispersed. theory of this early seventies kind marxist, feminist, structuralist was of a totalizing bent, concerned to put a whole form of political life into question in the name of some desirable alternative. it went all the way down, and thus belonged in its intellectual verve and daring with the insurgent political radicalisms of the day. it was, to adapt a phrase of louis althusser's, political struggle at the level of theory; and its ambitiousness was reflected in the fact that what was very soon at stake was not simply different ways of dissecting literature, but the whole definition and constitution of the field of study. the children of the sixties and seventies were also the inheritors of so-called popular culture, which was part of what they were required to put in suspension when studying jane austen. the momentum of national liberation movements throughout the third world slackened in the early 1970s after the portu guese revolution. social democracy in the west, apparently unable to cope with the mounting problems of a capitalism in severe crisis, gave way to political regimes of a distinctly right-wing tenor, whose aim was not simply to combat radical values but to wipe them from living memory. by the close of the 1970s, marxist criticism was rapidly falling from favour, as the world capitalist system, with its back to the economic wall since the oil crisis of the early 1970s, aggressively confronted third world revolutionary nationalism abroad, and at home launched a series of virulent onslaughts on the labour movement and the forces of the left, along with liberal or enlightened thought in general. as if all this were not enough, the almighty, evidently displeased with cultural theory, stepped in and picked off roland barthes, michel foucault, louis althusser and jacques lacan. what held the fort of political criticism was feminism, which had rapidly come into its own; and it is no accident that this was also the heyday of post structuralism. for though post-structuralism has its radical wing, its politics have been on the whole somewhat muted and oblique, and so more in keeping with a post-radical age. it preserves the dissenting energies of an earlier epoch, but combines them with a scepticism of determinate truths and meanings which blended reasonably well with a disillusioned liberal sensibility. in fact many of post-structuralism's emphases a suspicion of the semiotic closure and metaphysical foundations, a nervousness about positive or programmatic, a distaste for notions of historical progress, a pluralist resistance to the doctrinal merge well enough with that liberal frame of mind. it was theory brought home to lived reality, which it at once challenged and respected; and as such it promised to lend a down-to-earth habitation to such apparently abstract topics as essentialism and conventionalism, the constitution ofiden tities and the nature of political power. but it also offered a form of theoret ical radicalism and political engagement in a period increasingly sceptical of the more traditional varieties ofleft-wing politics, as well as not least in the case of north america societies with only a meagre memory of socialism. as the forces of the socialist left were inexorably driven back, sexual politics began both to enrich and displace them. in the early 1970s, there was much talk of the relations between signifiers, socialism and sexuality; in the early 1980s of the relations between signifiers and sexuality; and, as the 1980s moved into the 1990s, much talk of sexuality. theory had shifted almost overnight from lenin to lacan, benveniste to the body; and if this was a salutary extension of politics into areas it had previously failed to reach, it was also, in part, the result of a deadlock in other kinds of political struggle. feminist theory, however, was itself by no means unaffected by the general downturn in radical politics which the late 1970s and early 1980s were to witness. as the women's movement was rebuffed by a traditionalist, family-centred, puritanical new right, it suffered a series of political setbacks which left their imprint on the theorizing itself. the heyday of feminist theory occurred in the 1970s, at a point now twenty years or so behind us. since then, the field has been enriched by countless particular workings of the theory in terms of both general topics and specific writers; but there have been few theoretical breakthroughs to equal the groundbreaking work of the early pioneers moers, millett, showalter, gilbert and gubar, kristeva, irigaray, cixous, with their heady blendings of semiotics, linguistics, psy choanalysis, political theory, sociology, aesthetics and practical criticism. this is not to suggest that a good deal of impressive theoretical work has not been produced since then, not least in the fertile field of feminism and psychoanalysis;' but taken as a whole it hardly matches the intellectual ferment of the earlier years, an act which proved peculiarly hard to follow. some searching 1970s debates about the compatibility or otherwise between feminism and marxism lapsed largely into silence. by the mid-1980s, it could no longer be assumed that a feminist, especially in north america, had much more knowledge of or sympathy for the socialist project than, say, a phenomenologist. the same can hardly be said of marxist criticism, which since its apogee in the mid-1970s has languished somewhat in the doldrums. ' it is sympto matic in this respect that the work of the west's leading marxist literary theorist, fredric jameson, while still resolutely marxist in orientation, shifted increasingly over the 1980s into the fields of film theory and postmodernism. " this waning of marxism long pre-dated the momentous events of the late 1980s in eastern europe, when neo-stalinism, to the relief of all democratic socialists, was finally overthrown by just the kind of popu lar revolutions which western postmodernism had complacently concluded were no longer either possible or desirable. since this event was one which mainstream currents of the western marxist left had been clamouring for for a good seventy years, it was hardly an abrupt disillusionment with 'actually existing socialism' in the east which caused the decline of marxist criticism in the west. the fading popularity of marxist criticism from the 1970s onwards was the result of developments in the so-called first world, not in the so-called second. it stemmed in part from the crisis of global capitalism which we have glanced at already, in part from the criticisms aimed at marxism by the various 'new' political currents feminism, gay rights, ecology, ethnic movements and the rest which sprang up in the wake of an earlier working-class militancy, nationalist insurrection, civil rights and student movements. most of these earlier projects had been based on a belief in a struggle between mass political organization on the one hand and an oppressive state power on the other; most of them envisaged the radical transformation of capitalism, racism or imperialism as a whole, and so thought in ambitiously 'totalizing' terms. by about 1980, all of this had come to look distinctly passe. since state power had proved too strong to dismantle, so-called micropolitics were now the order of the day. in the hands of some of his anglo-saxon disciples, deconstruction was reduced to a narrowly textual form of enquiry, lending a boost to the literary canon it offered to subvert by roaming ceaselessly over its contents, deconstructing as it went and so keeping the critical industry well supplied with sophisticated new materials. derrida himself has always insisted on the political, historical, institutional nature of his project; but this, transplanted from paris to yale or cornell, tended like the odd french wine not to travel well, and this audacious, iconoclastic thought-form proved easily assimilable to a formalist paradigm. on the whole, post-structuralism in general thrived best when it blended some broader project: feminism, post-colonialism, psychoanalysis. by the late 1980s, card-carrying deconstructionists looked like becoming an endangered species, not least after the high drama of the so-called de man affair in 1987, when the grand master of us deconstruction, the yale critic paul de man, was revealed to have contrib uted pro-german and anti-semitic articles to some collaborationist belgian journals during the second world war. ? the de man affair, as though orchestrated by some hidden hand of history, curiously coincided with a downturn in those intel lectual fortunes, and some at least of the ill feeling associated with the rumpus sprang from a current of theory which now felt that its back was increasingly to the wall. rightly or wrongly, deconstruction stood accused among other sins of an unhistorical formalism; and throughout the 1980s, not least in the united states, there had been a gathering swell floating literary theory back in the direction of some brand of historicism. in changed political circumstances, however, this could no longer be the appar ently discredited historicism of marx or hegel, with its supposed faith in grand, unitary narratives, its teleological hopes, its hierarchy of historical causes, its realist faith in determining the truth of historical events, its assured distinctions between what was central and what peripheral in history itself. the new historicism, which focused largely on the renaissance period, truth to a yoked an epistemological scepticism about assured historical notable nervousness of grand narratives. history was less a determinate pattern of cause and effect than a random, contingent field of forces, in which causes and effects were to be constructed by the observer rather than taken as given. it was a tangled skein of dispersed narratives, none of which was necessarily more significant than any other; and all knowledge of the past was skewed by the interests and desires of the present. there was no firm distinction any longer between historical highways and minor foot paths, or indeed any hard-and-fast opposition between fact and fiction. historical events were treated as 'textual' phenomena, while literary works were regarded as material events. historiography was a form of narration conditioned by the narrator's own prejudices and preoccupations, and so itself a kind of rhetoric or fiction. it is only a mild exaggera tion to claim that the new historicism was prepared in pluralist spirit to examine any topic at all as long as it cropped up somewhere in the work of michel foucault, or had some fairly direct bearing on the somewhat parlous condition of present-day american culture. in the end, much of it seemed less to do with the elizabethan state or jacobean court than with the fate of former radicals in contemporary california. the grand master of the school, stephen greenblatt, had moved from the influence of raymond williams, of whom he had once been a pupil, to that of michel foucault; and this was among other things a shift from political hope to political pessimism which well reflected the changing mood of the 1980s, not least in a reaganite united states. the new historicism, then, certainly judged the past in the light of the present, but not necessarily in ways which always reflected credit on itself, or in ways about which it was prepared to be self-critical and self historicizing. it is a familiar truth that the very last thing which historicisms are usually prepared to place under historical judgement is their own histor ical conditions. like many a postmodern form of thought, it implicitly offered as a universal to universalize what could be fairly easily seen, from some way off, as the historically peculiar situation of a specific wing of the western left intelligentisa. perhaps it is easier in california to feel that history is random, unsystematic, directionless, than in some less privileged places in the world just as it was easier for virginia woolf to feel that life was fragmentary and unstructured than it was for her servants. it could be seen either as an enrich ment or a dilution of classical marxism: enrichment, because it carried materialism boldly through to the 'spiritual' itself; dilution, because in doing so it blurred the distinctions, vital to orthodox marxism, between the eco nomic and the cultural. the method was, so williams himself announced, 'compatible' with marxism; but it took issue with the kind of marxism which had relegated culture to secondary, 'superstructural' status, and re sembled the new historicism in its refusal to enforce such hierarchies. it also paralleled the new historicism on taking on board a whole range of topics notably, sexuality, feminism, ethnic and post-colonial questions to which marxist criticism had traditionally given short shrift. there were those for whom all that enlighten ment discourse of justice and autonomy was now definitively over, indeed those for whom history itself had been triumphantly consummated, and other less apocalyptic thinkers for whom those great ethical and political questions obdurately refused to disappear from theory precisely because they had not yet been effectively resolved in practice. post-structuralism, as if aware of this, began to take a mildly ethical turn;" but it found it hard to compete in this region with the german tradition of philosophical enquiry from hegel to habermas, which in however rebarbatively abstract a fashion had clung tenaciously to these topics and produced a wealth of systematic it came as no surprise, that a group of reflection around them. so far, we have touched on the term 'postmodernism' without pausing to unpack it. yet it is doubtless the most widely-touted term in cultural theory today, one which, in promising to cover everything from madonna to meta narrative, post-fordism to pulp fiction, threatens thereby to collapse into meaninglessness. we can, first of all, distinguish the more comprehensive, historical or philosophical term 'postmodernity' from the narrow, more cultural or aesthetic term 'postmodernism'. postmodemity means the end of modernity, in the sense of those grand narratives of truth, reason, science, progress and universal emancipation which are taken to characterize modern thought from the enlightenment onwards. 14 for postmodernity, these fond hopes have not only been historically discredited; they were dangerous illusions from the outset, bundling the rich contingencies of history into a conceptual straitjacket. such tyrannical schemes ride roughshod over the complexity and multiplicity of actual history, brutally eradicate difference, reduce all otherness to the drearily selfsame, and issue often enough in a totalitarian politics. they involve the dangerously absolutist faith that our varied, contingent forms of life and knowledge can be grounded in some single, ultimate, unimpeachable principle: reason or the laws of history, technology or modes of production, political utopia or a universal human nature. for 'anti-foundationalist' postmodernity, by con trast, our forms of life are relative, ungrounded, self-sustaining, made up of mere cultural convention and tradition, without any identifiable origin or grandiose goal; and 'theory', at least for the more conservative brands of the creed, is for the most part just a high-sounding way of rationalizing these inherited habits and institutions. we cannot found our activities rationally, not only because there are different, discontinuous, perhaps incommen surable rationalities, but because any reasons we can advance will always be shaped by some pre-rational context of power, belief, interest or desire which can never itself be the subject of rational demonstration. there is no overarching totality, rationality or fixed centre to human life, no metalan guage which can capture its endless variety, just a plurality of cultures and narratives which cannot be hierarchically ordered or 'privileged', and which must consequently respect the inviolable 'otherness' of ways of doing things which are not their own. knowledge is relative to cultural contexts, so that to claim to know the world 'as it is' is simply a chimera not only because our understanding is always a matter of partial, partisan interpretation, but because the world itself is no way in particular. truth is the product of interpretation, facts are constructs of discourse, objectivity is just whatever questionable interpretation of things has currently seized power, and the human subject is as much a fiction as the reality he or she contemplates, a diffuse, self-divided entity without any fixed nature or essence. in all of this, postmodernity is a kind of extended footnote to the philosophy of friedrich nietzsche, who anticipated almost everyone of these positions in nineteenth-century europe. nervous of all isolated identity, and wary of the notion of absolute origins, it draws attention to its own 'intertextual' nature, its parodic recyc1ings of other works which are themselves no more than such recyc1ings. part of what it parodies is past history a history which is no longer to be seen in linear terms as the chain of causality which produced the present, but which exists in a kind of eternal present as so much raw material torn from its own context and cobbled together with the contemporary. finally, and perhaps most typically of all, postmodern culture turns its distaste for fixed boundaries and categories on the traditional distinction between 'high' and 'popular' art, deconstructing the borderline between them by producing artifacts which are self-consciously populist or vernacu lar, or which offer themselves as commodities for pleasurable consumption. postmodernism, like walter benjamin's 'mechanical reproduction'," seeks to dismantle the intimidating aura of high-modernist culture with a more demotic, user-friendly art, suspecting 'all hierarchies of value as privileged and elitist. there is no better or worse, just different. in seeking to leap the barrier between art and common life, postmodernism seems to some the resurgence in our own time of the radical avant-garde, which had tradition ally pursued this goal. in advertising, fashion, lifestyle, the shopping mall and the mass media, aesthetics and technology had finally interpenetrated, while political life had become transformed to a kind of aesthetic spectacle. postmodernism's impatience with conventional aesthetic judgements took on tangible shape in so-called cultural studies, which grew apace as the 1980s unfolded, and which often enough refused to respect value distinctions between the sonnet and the soap opera. the debates over postmodernism and postmodernity have taken many forms. there is the question; for example, of how far down these develop ments go of whether they are really, so to speak, wall-to-wall, as the dominant culture of our age, or whether they are a good deal more sectoral and specific than that. is postmodernity the appropriate philosophy for our time, or is it the world view of a jaded bunch of erstwhile revolutionary western intellectuals who with typical intellectual arrogance have projected it upon contemporary history as a whole? what does postmodernism mean in mali or mayo? what does it mean to societies which have yet to fully enter upon modernity proper? is the word neutrally descriptive of consumerist society, or a positive recommendation of a certain style of life? is it, as fredric jameson believes, the culture oflate capitalthe final penetration of the commodity form into culture itself or is it, as its more radical expo nents urge, a subversive strike at all elites, hierarchies, master narratives and immutable truths? the arguments will doubtless continue, not least because postmodernism is that most robust of all theories, one rooted in a concrete set of social practices and institutions. it is possible to ignore phenomenology or semi otics or reception theory indeed the vast majority of humankind have but not consumerism, the mass proved singularly successful in doing so media, aestheticized politics, sexual difference. but the arguments will also continue because there are serious divergencies within postmodern theory itself. for its more politically minded proponents, such mystifying ideas as truth, identity, totality, universality, foundations, metanarrative, the collec tive revolutionary subject, must be cleared away precisely so that genuinely effective radical projects can get off the ground. for its more conservative apologists, the rejection of these notions goes hand-in-hand with a defence of the political status quo. there is thus all the difference in the world between foucault and stanley fish, derrida and richard rorty, though all four can be broadly categorized as postmodernists. for american neo pragmatists like rorty and fish, the collapse of transcendental viewpoints signals, in effect, the collapse of the possibility of full-blooded political critique. '? such a critique, so the argument runs, could only be launched from some metaphysical vantage-point completely beyond our current life forms; and since there is self-evidently no such place to stand or since, even if there were, it would' be irrelevant and unintelligible to us even our most apparently revolutionary claims must always be in collusion with the discourses of the present. we are always, in short, installed firmly on the inside of the culture we hope to criticize, so thoroughly constituted by its interests and beliefs that to put them into radical question would involve leaping out of our own skins. as long as what we utter is intelligible and any critique which is not would be merely ineffective then we are already in complicity with the culture we seek to objectify, and so plunged in a kind of bad faith. weare asked to believe, with gross implausibility, that multinational capitalism is just a random concurrence of this or that practice, technique, social relation, with no systematic logic whatsoever; and all this can then be offered as a 'radical' defence of pluralism against the terrors of totalization. this is a dogma which is perhaps rather easier to sustain in columbia university than in the latin american nation of that name. if, by the mid-1990s, feminist criticism has proved the most popular of the various new literary approaches, then post-colonial theory has been pressing hard on its heels. is like feminism and postmodernism, and unlike phenomenology or reception theory, post-colonial theory is directly rooted in historical developments. the collapse of the great european empires; their replacement by the world economic hegemony of the united states; the steady erosion of the nation state and of traditional geopolitical frontiers, along with mass global migrations and the creation of so-called multicultural the intensifed exploitation of ethnic groups within the west societies; the formidable power of the new and -'peripheral' societies elsewhere; transnational corporations: all of this has developed apace since the 1960s, and with it a veritable revolution in our notions of space, power, language, identity. since culture, in the broad rather than narrow sense of the term, lies near the centre of some of these issues, it is hardly surprising that during the last two decades they should have left their imprint on those sectors of the humanities which have been traditionally concerned with culture in the narrower sense of the term. just as the dominance of the mass media forced a rethinking of classical so 'multiculturalism', which belongs to the same historical period, challenges the way the west has conceived its identity and articulated it in a canon of artistic works. both currents cultural sudies and post-colonialism take a decisive step beyond the questions of theoretical method which held sway over an earlier phase of literary theory. what is now at stake is the problematizing of 'culture' itself, which in moving beyond the isolated work of art lifestyle, social value, group identity, inevitably intersects with questions of global political power. psychoanalytic categor ies of 'splitting' and projection, denial and disavowal, have shifted from the freudian textbooks to become ways of analysing the psycho-political rela tions between colonizers and colonized. debates between 'modernity' and 'postmodernity' have special force in peripheral cultures which are increas ingly dragged into the orbit of a postmodern west without, for good or ill, having fully undergone a european-style modernity themselves. and the plight of women in such societies, forced as they are to assume many of its most wretched burdens, has resulted in a peculiarly fruitful alliance between feminism and post-colonialism. post-colonial theory is not only the product of multiculturalism and decolonization. it also reflects an historic shift from revolutionary national to a 'post ism in the third world, which faltered in the 1970s, revolutionary' condition in which the power of the transnational corpora tions seems unbreakable. accordingly, much post-colonial writing fits well enough with postmodern suspicions of organized mass politics, turning instead to cultural matters. culture is on any estimate important in a neo colonial world; but it is hardly what is finally decisive. it is not in the end questions of language, skin colour or identity, but of commodity prices, raw materials, labour markets, military alliances and political forces, which shape the relations between rich and poor nations. in the west, especially in the united states, questions of ethnicity have at once enriched a radical politics narrowly fixated on social class, and, in their own narrow fixation on differ ence, helped to obscure the vital material conditions which different ethnic groups have in common. for all its emphasis on difference, post-colonial theory has sometimes too quickly conflated very different societies under the same 'third world' category; and its language has too often betrayed a portentous obscurantism incongruously remote from the peoples it champions. some of the theory has been genuinely pathbreaking, while some of it has done little more than reflect the guilty self-loathing of a western liberalism which would rather, in these hard political times, be absolutely anything but itself. among the more glamorous commodities which postmodern society has on offer is cultural theory itself. postmodern theory is part of the postmodern marketplace, not just a reflection upon it. it represents, among other things, in increasingly competitive a way of amassing valuable 'cultural capital' intellectual conditions. theory, partly because of its high-poweredness, esotericism, up-to-dateness, rarity and relative novelty, has achieved high prestige in the academic marketplace, even if it still provokes the virulent hostility of a liberal humanism which fears being ousted by it. post-structuralism is sexier than philip sidney, just as quarks are more alluring than quadrilaterals. theory has been one symptom in our time of the commodifying of the intellectual life itself, as one conceptual fashion usurps another as shortwindedly as changes in hairstyle. just as the human body has become aestheticized in our day, so theory has become a kind of minority art-form, playful, self ironizing and hedonistic, one place to which the impulses behind high the modernist art have now migrated. it has been, among other things, refuge of a disinherited western intellect, cut loose by the sheer squalor of modern history from its traditional humanistic bearings, and so at once gullible and sophisticated, streetwise and disorientated. it has too often acted as a modish substitute for political activity, in an age when such activity has been on the whole hard to come by; and having started life as an ambitious critique of our current ways of life, it now threatens to end up as a complacent consecration of them. it has no particular unity to it as a discipline; what, for example, do phenomenology and queer theory have in common? and none of the methods grouped under literary theory is peculiar to the study of literature; indeed most of them germinated in fields quite beyond it. yet this disciplinary indeterminacy also marks a breakdown in the traditional division of intellectual labour, which the word 'theory' somehow flags. 'theory' indicates that our classical ways of carving up knowledge are now, for hard historical reasons, in deep trouble. but it is as much a revealing symptom of this breakdown as a positive reconfiguration of the field. the emergence of theory suggests that, for good historical reasons, what had become known as the humanities could no longer carryon in their customary shape. this was all to the good, since the humanities' had too often proclaimed a spurious disinterestedness, preached 'universal' values which were all too socially specific, repressed the material basis of those values, absurdly overrated the importance of 'culture' and fostered a jeal ously elitist conception of it. it was for the bad, since the humanities had also kept warm some decent, generous values brusquely disregarded by everyday society; fostered in however idealist a guise a searching critique of our current way of life; and in nurturing a spiritual elitism had at least seen through the phoney egalitarianism of the marketplace. the task of cultural theory, broadly conceived, was to take apart the received wisdom of the traditional humanities. in this, one might claim, it has been reasonably successful, in theory if not in practice. since this book first appeared, there have been few convincing ripostes to the various cases which literary theory has launched. much hostility to theory has been little more than a typically anglo-saxon uneasiness with ideas as such a feeling that arid abstractions are out of place when it comes to art. this edginess about ideas is characteristic of those social groups whose own historically specific ideas have for the moment won out, and who can therefore come to mistake them either for natural feelings or eternal verities. those in com mand can afford to be dismissive of criticism and conceptual analysis, as those under their rule cannot. the charge that theory simply interposes a screen of obscurantist jargon between the reader and the text can be made against any kind of criticism whatsoever. matthew arnold and t. s. even some quite conservative critics are these days less given to arguing that radical theorists are ideologically skew-eyed whereas they themselves see the work as it really is. a broad kind of historicism has also carried the day: there are few card carrying formalists left around. if the author is not exactly dead, a naive biographism is no longer in fashion. the chancy nature of literary canons, their dependence on a culturally specific frame of value, is nowadays quite widely recognized, along with the truth that certain social groups have been unjustly excluded from them. and we are no longer exactly sure where high culture ends and popular culture begins. if literature matters today, it is chiefly be cause it seems to many conventional critics one of the few remaining places where, in a divided, fragmented world, a sense of universal value may still be incarnate; and where, in a sordidly material world, a rare glimpse of tran scendence can still be attained. hence, no doubt, the otherwise inexplicably intense, even virulent passions which such a minority, academicist pursuit as literary theory tends to unleash. for if even this precariously surviving enclave of art can be historicized, materialized, deconstructed, then where indeed is one to find value in a degraded world? the radical would reply that to assume that social life is uniformly degraded; and only culture precious, is actually part of the problem rather than the solution. this attitude itself reflects a particular political viewpoint, rather than being a disinterested statement of fact. at the same time, the generosity of the humanist's faith in common values must be candidly acknowledged. it is just that he or she mistakes a project still to be carried through that of a world held politically and economically in common with the 'universal' values of a world which has not yet been thus reconstructed. the humanist is thus not wrong to trust to the possibility of such universal values; it is just that nobody can yet say exactly what they would be, since the material conditions which might allow them to flourish have not yet come into being. if they were ever to do so, the theorist could relievedly lay down his or her theorizing, which would have been made redundant precisely by being politically realized, and do some thing more interesting for a change. this bibliography is designed' for readers who wish to follow up all or any of the various fields of literary theory dealt with in the book. works under each heading are listed not alphabetically, but in an order in which they might best be tackled by a beginner. all the works discussed in the book are given, as well as some extra items, but i have kept the list as selective and so as manageable as possible. with a few exceptions, all of the works listed are in english. as simple as the cogito or more complex, all arguments must ultimately be grounded in intuitive judgments that given conclusions follow from given premises. in other words, we are suggesting that arguments are not the output of a system 2 mechanism for explicit reasoning, that would be standing apart from, and in symmetrical contrast to, a system 1 mechanism for intuitive inference. rather, arguments are the output of one mechanism of intuitive inference among many that delivers intuitions about premise-conclusion relationships. intuitions about arguments have an evaluative component: some arguments are seen as strong, others as weak. moreover, there may be competing arguments for opposite conclusions and we may intuitively prefer one to another. these evaluation and preferences are ultimately grounded in intuition. in this section, we review evidence showing that people are skilled arguers, using reasoning both to evaluate and to produce arguments in argumentative contexts. this, in itself, is compatible with other accounts of the main function of reasoning. however, this evidence is relevant because the idea that people are not very skilled arguers is relatively common; if it were true, then the argumentative theory would be a nonstarter. it is therefore crucial to demonstrate that this is not the case and that people have good argumentative skills, starting with the ability to understand and evaluate arguments. here is the basic setup. on arriving at the laboratory, participants were told that they would be performing one of two tasks: a short and fun task or a long and hard task. moreover, they were given the possibility of choosing which task they would be performing, knowing that the other task would be assigned to another participant. they also had the option of letting a computer choose at random how the tasks would be distributed. once they were done assigning the tasks, participants had to rate how fair they had been. other participants, instead of having to make the assignment themselves, were at the receiving end of the allocation and had no choice whatsoever; they had to rate the fairness of the participant who had done the allocation, knowing the exact conditions under which this had been done. in a word, we need to examine how argument may come to be used under these favorable, supportive conditions, not only under more ordinary conditions. if broader engagement of this sort were to become the norm, who can say what the argumentive potential of future generations is? with education systems worldwide claiming commitment to the broad goal of students learning to use their minds well, so as to be able to apply them to new, unknown problems, we should at least seriously explore the question. defining collective memory as a social fact has been challenging for social scientists not only because conceptualizations of collective memory have complex relations with myth and history but also because collective memory is seen as performing many functions, operating on many different levels, and is assigned multiple meanings. the difficulty of defining collective memory, or memory in other forms, is magnified further by the fact that things that we remember individually are of many different kinds and we remember them for different, individual, reasons. for example, we can talk about autobiographical memory, cognitive memory, habitual memory, and collective or social memory, which is our main concern here. collective memory is social in origin and influenced by dominant discourses, but memory is also the faculty of individual minds. although it is the individual who remembers, remembering is more than a personal act, as even the most personal memories are embedded in social context and shaped by social factors that make social remembering possible, such as language, rituals, and commemoration practices. a third assumption about democracy and memory is that people who have experienced democracy and remember that experience help sustain the stability of this political system. this is not so much a theoretical as an historical argument, because historical examples support claims that collective memory of the democratic experience helps continue the legitimization of democracy and respect for its institutions and cultivates values of moderation. it appears that collective memory of a lived democratic past experience enhances the stability of a democracy. in the next section we outline the theoretical arguments underpinning the empirical developments then pay particular attention to a number of the most important empirical difficulties. in section three we review some existing work and explore estimates from a variety of uk datasets and specifications. section 4 considers the signalling role of education and the effect of credentials on wages. a related issue, discussed in section 5, is the extent to which there is heterogeneity in the returns to education: returns may differ across individuals because they differ in the efficiency with which they can exploit education to raise their productivity. finally, in section 6 we conclude. the second approach to distinguishing between ability and productivity is to directly include ability measures. the main problem with the ability controls method is that the ability measures need to be uncontaminated by the effects of education or they will pick up the productivity enhancing effects of education. moreover, the ability measures need to indicate ability to make money rather than ability in an iq sense. it seems unlikely that any ability measure would be able to satisfy both of these requirements exactly and we pursue the issue here with two specialised datasets. we compare these results using controls at age 11 and at age 16 in ncds. finally, we use the ability information taken at the current age in ials. as we expect, using ability controls at later ages confounds the effects of education on ability scores and the apparent bias appears to be larger. thus, the results at age 7 are probably our most accurate estimates of the extent to which education is picking up innate ability and this exhibits a rather small difference and suggests little signalling value to education. the coalition model directs our attention to the potentially important role of activist groups, initially as participants in the production process and then more importantly as catalysts in the distribution process, when documentary films become tools available to activist groups as they seek political impact. analysis of three case studies demonstrates the utility of this model, finding substantial impact in two arenas beyond the typical focus on individual citizens: mobilizing and educating activist groups and altering the agenda for and the substance of public policy deliberations. results contribute to our understanding of the strategic role of political communication and the ongoing debates over media effects. what is important for this study is that these two studies provide an indication of a broader sense of impact, beyond a focus on changes in the attitude and information of individual citizens. specifically, they to some degree point to the importance of the context of the viewing, of the nature of interpersonal discussions surrounding the viewing, and of the media coverage of the film. feldman and sigelman, for example, recognized that viewers were provided with not only the film but also a panel discussion, immediately following the broadcast, that provided a context for the experience. they analyzed the impact of the panel discussion, finding that it had very limited effects. a coalition model broadens our focus in three ways. 3 first of all, it incorporates the entire filmmaking process, including both production and distribution, and not simply a focus on the final finished product. the development, production, and distribution of a film creates extensive opportunities for interaction among, and impact on, producers, participants, activists, decision makers, and citizens. the individual citizen viewing the finished product in a movie theater or on television represents only the final stage of a long process. maxcine mitchell, an amateur videographer and former chair of the resident association for a public housing community, made a video of the poor conditions in public housing, and the production and distribution of that video had the effect of strengthening activist organizations and changing public policy in the town of chapel hill. the production process for the video was very straightforward and very illustrative of the kind of impact that production can have on producers and activist groups. in the summer of 1993, kathy gomez, disgusted at the condition of her apartment and frustrated in her attempts to get attention to her concerns, invited maxcine mitchell to use her newly purchased video camera to make a record of the maintenance problems in her apartment. gomez was the representative from her resident association to the city-wide resident council, and mitchell was the former chair of the resident council. the documentary premiered at the christmas party for the greens in 1992 and then had a public premiere at a unitarian fellowship in milwaukee. subsequent distribution took place in the context of an extensive public education effort involving a broad coalition of groups against mining, a coalition that included environmentalists, native american nations, sportfishing groups, unionists, students, and others. the greens coordinated the sales of the tape, placed advertisements and notices in community and environmental newsletters, and eventually sold over 500 copies. effects on activist groups. for one labor activist, the project changed the whole way she approached organizing. as she began to make the documentary the centerpiece of her organizing efforts, she began to understand how powerful such presentations are, particularly when they include the voices of working-class people like the ones she is trying to reach. she recognized the role that the project could play in the ongoing struggle to create public spaces for discussion of controversial issues. other activists found that the film inspired them and provided them a clearer sense of connection with activists in the past who had been engaged in the same struggle in which they were now involved. the documentary also became part of a region-wide educational process for labor activists in the southeast. the production process was often the first time activists had heard of the events of 1934, and they in turn became interested in educating others in the labor movement. union leaders, including the seiu and unite, used the film internally to give union members a better sense of the long history of labor activism in the southeast. unions also attempted to use the film to change community attitudes about the legitimacy of organized labor, by demonstrating the long history of union organizing in the southeast and its violent suppression. the documentary also provoked labor activists and historians to undertake further research into events in their own localities, and this led to greater awareness of other strikes and labor activities in the 1930s and after. another intriguing effect of the project, stemming from both the participatory nature of the production process and the coalition model of distribution, is the extensive networking that occurred among a wide range of activists and organizers. during production, labor historians, union activists, and community members were brought together to explore events within local communities, and often these individuals had never worked together before or did not even know each other and the organizations they represented. in the case of public housing reform, it seems clear that the video was a necessary component, if not the centerpiece, of the campaign. and, for the specific policy outcome of the monument built to honor the strikers, the public dialogue that produced the climate for action would not have existed without the documentary. the independent contribution of the danielson documentary to the success of the campaign for a mining moratorium in wisconsin is more ambiguous. while the documentary was definitely an important tool in raising the priority of the issue within the state, its role in actual legislative deliberations appears to have been marginal. another set of factors has to do with the activist groups that choose to present a documentary. once produced, activist groups and individuals can use a documentary to create a public space within which citizens and decision makers can encounter, discuss, and decide to act on the issues raised. obviously, the more groups involved, and the greater their financial and organizational resources, the greater the potential impact. impact is also related to the creativity and aggressiveness that groups exhibit in reaching grassroots audiences and in creating the spaces in which to present the documentary: the larger and more diverse the audiences, the greater the potential impact. presenters in the case studies took advantage of a wide variety of public spaces, including community festivals, government and community meetings, bars, malls, libraries, churches, and museums. in the philosophy of money, georg simmel presents a remarkable and wide-ranging discussion of the social, psychological and philosophical aspects of the money economy. he provides us with a detailed analysis of the circulation and exchange of commodities, while considering the relationship of money to the human personality, the position of women, individual freedom and other key areas of human existence. through this he creates a series of brilliant insights into the forms which social relationships take and gives us a comprehensive analysis of the interrelationships between the most diverse and seemingly unconnected social and cultural phenomena. the first two chapters and part of the third chapter were translated by tom bottomore and the remainder by david frisby. i would like to thank glyn adey for supplying me with a draft translation of some sections of the present volume. our greatest debt must be to the late kaethe mengelberg who originally provided a draft of the whole volume. without the assistance of this earlier work, it is doubtful whether the present translation could have been completed. this translation is therefore dedicated to her memory. however, simmel differs from them in that he does not confine himself to the investigation of a specific historical epoch but rather strives, as the most it were, comprehensive constellation of meaning in which the significance of the money economy is ultimately illuminated. through the objectification of life, individuality is increasingly ousted from its realities and actions and the manifestation of the personality is left with increasingly less room for manouver in this sphere. on the other hand, it makes possible, and even contributes to, the fact that the real innermost life of the soul becomes completely independent of these facts and consequently becomes exclusively inward. simmel points out at the same time with regard to this statement that this development of the introversion of the life of the soul is necessary to the same extent that it runs counter to every aesthetic ideal of life. i see no end to the difficulties since, in any case, i am convinced of the fact that i can only maintain my relativism if it is capable, as it were, of solving all the problems which are presented by theories of absolutism. 161 simmel argues that all the expressions of cultural life stand in innumerable relationships to each other and that none can be extracted from the context in which they are found. this interconnectedness is revealed either through examining the actual basic interrelationship of the most diverse phenomena or through demonstrating the analogous structure possessed by different social phenomena. this web or network of relationships is itself located within a social process that has been dehistoricized. it is one that excludes levels of contradiction and therefore moves towards a view of society as a natural harmonious whole. on the one hand, it can present the pre-conditions that, situated in mental states, in social relations and in the logical structure of reality and values, give money its meaning and its practical position. this is not the question of the origin of money, for such a question belongs to history and not to philosophy. moreover, no matter how much we appreciate the gain in the understanding of a phenomenon that is derived from a study of its historical development, its substantive meaning and importance often rest upon connections of a conceptual, psychological or ethical nature that are not temporal but rather are purely material. such connections have, of course, been realized by historical forces, but are not exhausted by the fortuitousness of the latter. the significance, the dignity and the substance of justice, religion or knowledge lie completely beyond the question concerning the manner in which they were historically realized. the first part of this book, therefore, relates money to the conditions that determine its essence and the meaning of its existence. methodologically, this basic intention can be expressed in the following manner. the attempt is made to construct a new storey beneath historical materialism such that the explanatory value of the incorporation of economic life into the causes of intellectual culture is preserved, while these economic forms themselves are recognized as the result of more profound valuations and currents of psychological or even metaphysical preconditions. for the practice of cognition this must develop in infinite reciprocity. every interpretation of an ideal structure by means of an economic structure must lead to the demand that the latter in turn be understood from more ideal depths, while for these depths themselves the general economic base has to be sought, and so on indefinitely. in such an alternation and entanglement of the conceptually opposed principles of cognition, the unity of things, which seems intangible to our cognition but none the less establishes its coherence, becomes practical and vital for us. the intentions and methods referred to here could not lay claim to any justification in principle if they were not able to serve a substantive diversity of basic philosophical convictions. it is possible to relate the details and superficialities of life to its most profound and essential movements, and their interpretation in accordance with the total meaning of life can be performed on the basis of idealism just as much as of realism, of a rational as much as a volitional or an absolutist as much as a relativistic following investigations are founded on one of these world pictures, which i consider to be the most appropriate expression of the contemporary contents of science and emotional currents and decisively exclude the opposing world picture, might secure for them at worst the role of a mere typical example which, even if it is factually incorrect, reveals its methodological significance as the form of future truths. with the same indifference, nature at one time offers us objects that we value highly, at another time withholds them. the occasional harmony between the series, the realization through the reality series of demands derived from the value series, shows the absence of any logical relationship between them just as strikingly as does the opposite case. we may be aware of the same life experience as both real and valuable, but the experience has quite a different meaning in the two cases. the series of natural phenomena could be described in their entirety without mentioning the value of things; and our scale of valuation remains meaningful, whether or not any of its objects appear frequently or at all in reality. value is an addition to the completely determined objective being, like light and shade, which are not inherent in it but come from a different source. however, we should avoid one misinterpretation; namely, that the formation of value concepts, as a psychological fact, is quite distinct from the natural process. a superhuman mind, which could understand by means of natural laws everything that happens in the world, would also comprehend the fact that people have concepts of values. but these would have no meaning or validity for a being that conceived them purely theoretically, beyond their psychological existence. the meaning of value concepts is denied to nature as a mechanical causal system, while at the same time the psychic experiences that make values a part of our consciousness themselves belong to the natural world. valuation as a real psychological occurrence is part of the natural world; but what we mean by valuation, its conceptual meaning, is something independent of this world; is not part of it, but is rather the whole world viewed from a particular vantage point. we are rarely aware of the fact that our whole life, from the point of view of consciousness, consists in experiencing and judging values, and that it acquires meaning and significance only from the fact that the mechanically unfolding elements of reality possess an infinite variety of values beyond their objective substance. the significance of this requirement, which determines the constitution of our world view, is not altered by the fact that our powers of comprehension are often insufficient to decide upon the reality of concepts, or by the fact that the range and certainty of our feelings are often inadequate to rank things according to their value, especially in any permanently and universal fashion. over the world of mere concepts, of objective qualities and against determinations, stand the great categories of being and value, inclusive forms that take their material from the world of pure contents. both categories have the quality of being fundamental, that is irreducible to each other or to other simpler elements. consequently, the being of objects can never be inferred logically; being is rather a primary form of our perception, which can be sensed, experienced and believed, but cannot be deduced for somebody who does not yet know it. if we accept the existence of a value, then the process of its realization, its evolution, can be comprehended rationally, because in general it follows the structure of the contents of reality. that there is a value at all, however, is a primary phenomenon. value inferences only make known the conditions under which values are realized, yet without being produced by these conditions, just as theoretical proofs only prepare the conditions that favour the sense of affirmation or of existence. the question as to what value really is, like the question as to what being is, is unanswerable. and precisely because they have the same formal relation to objects, they are as alien to each other as are thought and extension for spinoza. since both express the same absolute substance, each in its own way and perfect in itself, the one can never encroach upon the other. they never impinge upon each other because they question the concepts of objects from completely different points of view. these two compilations made by the soul, through perceiving and through valuing, may perhaps once more be brought together in a metaphysical unity, for which there is no linguistic term unless it be in religious symbols. there is perhaps a cosmic ground where the heterogeneity and divergencies that we experience between reality and value no longer exist, where both series are revealed as one; this unity either being unaffected by the two categories, and standing beyond them in majestic indifference, or signifying a harmonious interweaving of both, which is shattered and distorted into fragments and contrasts only by our way of regarding it, as if we had an imperfect visual faculty. the subjectivity of value, therefore, is first of all only negative, in the sense that value is not attached to objects in the same way as is colour or temperature. the latter, although determined by our senses, are accompanied by a feeling of their direct dependence upon the object; but in the case of value we soon learn to disregard this feeling because the two series constituted by reality and by value are quite independent of each other. the only cases more interesting than this general characterization are those in which psychological facts appear to lead to an opposite view. this evolutionary relation between subject and object is repeated finally on a large scale: the intellectual world of classical antiquity differs from that of modern times chiefly in the fact that only the latter has, on the one hand, developed a comprehensive and clear concept of the ego, as shown by the significance of the problem of liberty which was unknown in ancient times; and on the other, expressed the independence and force of the concept of the object through the idea of unalterable laws of nature. antiquity was much closer than were later periods to the stage of indifference in which the contents of the world were conceived as such, without being apportioned between subject and object. to be sure, so far as such a pure objective content is thought, it becomes a conception and to that extent a subjective structure. but the subjective is here only the dynamic act of conception, the function that apprehends the content; in itself this content is thought of as being independent of the act of conceiving. our mind has a remarkable ability to think of contents as being independent of the act of thinking; this is one of its primary qualities, which cannot be reduced any further. the contents have their conceptual or objective qualities and relationships which can be apprehended but which are not thereby completely absorbed; they exist whether or not they are part of my representation and whether or not they are part of objective reality. the content of a representation does not coincide with the representation of contents. the simple undifferentiated conception that consists only in becoming aware of a content cannot be characterized as subjective, because it does not yet know the contrast between subject and object. similarly, the pure content of objects or conceptions is not objective, but escapes equally this differential form and its opposite, while being ready to present itself in one or the other. subject and object are born in the same act: logically, by presenting the conceptual ideal content first as a content of representation, and then as a content of objective reality; psychologically, when the still ego-less representation, in which person and object are undifferentiated, becomes divided and gives rise to a distance between the self and its object, through which each of them becomes a separate entity. this process, which finally produces our intellectual world view, also occurs in the sphere of our volitional practical activity. here also the distinction between the desiring, consuming, valuing subject and the valued object does not comprehend all aspects of mental life, nor all the objective circumstances of practical activity. human enjoyment of an object is a completely undivided act. at such moments we have an experience that does not include an awareness of an object confronting us or an awareness of the self as distinct from its present condition. phenomena of the basest and the highest kind meet here. the crude impulse, particularly an impulse of an impersonal, general nature, wants to release itself towards an object and to be satisfied, no matter how; consciousness is exclusively concerned with satisfaction and pays no attention to its bearer on one side or its object on the other. on the other hand, intense aesthetic enjoyment displays the same form. to reiterate the earlier analogy: in the final analysis perhaps, reality does not press upon our consciousness through the resistance that phenomena exert, but we register those representations which have feelings of resistance and inhibition associated with them, as being objectively real, independent and external to us. objects are not difficult to acquire because they are valuable, but we call those objects valuable that resist our desire to possess them. since the desire encounters resistance and frustration, the objects gain a significance that would never have been attributed to them by an unchecked will. value, which appears at the same time and in the same process of differentiation as the desiring ego and as its correlate, is subordinate to yet another category. it is the same category as applies to the object that is conceived in theoretical representations. we concluded, in that case, that the contents that are realized in the objective world and also exist in us as subjective representations have, in addition, a peculiar ideal dignity. the concepts of the triangle or of the organism, causality or the law of gravitation have a logical sense, an inner structural validity which indeed determines their realization in space and in consciousness; but even if they were never realized, they would still belong to the ultimate unanalysable category of the valid and significant, and would differ entirely from fantastic and contradictory conceptual notions to which they might be akin in their reference to physical and mental non-reality. the value that is attributed to the objects of subjective desire is analogous to this, with the qualifications required by its different sphere. in conformity with the practical sphere to which it belongs, it has a particular form of relationship to the subject which does not exist for the merely abstract content of our theoretical concepts. this form may be described as a claim or demand. the value that attaches to any object, person, relationship or happening demands recognition. this demand exists, as an event, only within ourselves as subjects; but in accepting it we sense that we are not merely satisfying a claim imposed by ourselves upon ourselves, or merely acknowledging a quality of the object. the latter is a concrete unity to which the differentiating categories have not yet been applied; the former is an abstract or ideal unity, in whose self-subsistent meaning the dualism has again disappeared, just as the contrast between the empirical ego and the empirical non-ego disappears in the all-comprehending system of consciousness that fichte calls the ego. at the moment of complete fusion of the function and its content, enjoyment cannot be called subjective, because there is no counterposed object that would justify the concept of a subject. likewise, this independent, self-justifying value is not objective simply because it is conceived as independent by the subject who conceives it; although it becomes manifest within the subject as a claim for recognition, it will not forfeit anything of its reality if this claim is not fulfilled. this metaphysical sublimation of value does not play any role in the valuations of daily life, which are concerned only with values in the consciousness of the subject and with the objectivity that emerges as a counterposed object in this psychological process of valuation. i showed earlier that this process of the formation of values develops with the increase in distance between the consumer and the cause of his enjoyment. the differences in valuation which have to be distinguished as subjective and objective, originate from such variations in distance, measured not in terms of enjoyment, in which the distance disappears, but in terms of desire, which is engendered by the distance and seeks to overcome it. at least in the case of those objects whose valuation forms the basis of the economy, value is the correlate of demand. just as the world of being is my representation, so the world of value is my demand. however, in spite of the logical-physical necessity that every demand expects to be satisfied by an object, the psychological structure of demand is such that in most cases it is focused upon the satisfaction itself, and the object becomes a matter of indifference so long as it satisfies the need. when a man is satisfied with any woman whatsoever, without exercising an individual choice, when he eats anything at all that he can chew and digest, when he sleeps at any resting place, when his cultural needs can be satisfied by the simplest materials offered by nature, then his practical consciousness is completely subjective, he is inspired exclusively by the agitations and satisfactions of his own subjective condition and his interest in objects is limited to their being the causes of these effects. this fact is observed in the naive need for projection by primitive man, who directs his life towards the outside world and takes his inner life for granted. but the conscious wish cannot always be taken as a sufficient index of the really effective valuation. when an identical need rejects a number of possible satisfactions, perhaps all but one, and when, therefore, it is not satisfaction as such but satisfaction by a specific object that is desired, there begins a fundamental reorientation from the subject to the object. it may be said that this is still only a question of the subjective satisfaction of need, but that in this second case the need is differentiated to such an extent that only a specific object can satisfy it. in this case also the object is only the cause of sensation and is not valued in itself. such an objection would indeed nullify the difference, if it were the case that the differentiation of the impulse directed it exclusively upon a single satisfying object and ruled out the possibility of satisfaction through any other object. thus, for instance, talking things over is one of the most powerful means for subduing emotions. the inner process is, as it were, projected by the word into the external world; it now stands over against the individual like a tangible structure, and the intensity of the emotions is diverted. the tranquillization of the passions, and the representation of the objective world as existing and significant, are two sides of one and the same basic process. the diversion of inner interest from mere need and its satisfaction to the object itself, as a result of diminishing the possibility of satisfying the need, can obviously be brought about and strengthened just as well from the side of the object, if the latter makes satisfaction difficult, rare, and to be attained only indirectly or by exceptional effort. even if we assume a highly differentiated desire concentrated upon selected objects, satisfaction might still be regarded as more or less a matter of course so long as there is no difficulty or resistance. what really matters, in order to conceive the independent significance of objects, is the distance between them and our impression of them. it is one of the numerous cases in which one has to stand back from the objects, to establish a distance between them and oneself, in order to get an objective picture of them. this is certainly no less subjective a view than the unclear or distorted picture that is obtained when the distance is too great or too small; but inner expediential reasons of our cognition lay a special emphasis upon subjectivity in the case of these extremes. at first, the object exists only in our relationship to it and is completely absorbed in this relationship; it becomes something external and opposed to us only in the degree that it escapes from this connection. even the desire for objects, which recognizes their autonomy while seeking to overcome it, develops only when want and satisfaction do not coincide. the possibility of enjoyment must be separated, as an image of the future, from our present condition in order for us to desire things that now stand at a distance from us. just as in the intellectual sphere the original oneness of perception, which we can observe in children, is only gradually divided into awareness of the self and of the object, so the naive enjoyment of objects only gives way to an awareness of the significance of things, and respect for them, when the objects are somewhat withdrawn. here, too, the relationship between the weakening of desire and the beginning of an objectification of values is apparent, since the decline of the elemental strength of volition and feeling favours the growing awareness of the self. so long as a person surrenders unreservedly to a momentary feeling and is completely possessed by it, the ego cannot develop. in all areas of our life ego and object are related concepts, which are not yet separated in the initial forms of representation and only become differentiated through each other; and in just the same way, the independent value of objects develops only by contrast with an ego that has become independent. only the repulsions that we experience, the difficulties of attaining an object, the waiting and the labour that stand between a wish and its fulfilment, drive the ego and the object apart; otherwise they remain undeveloped and undifferentiated in the propinquity of need and satisfaction. whether the effective definition of the object arises from its scarcity, in relation to demand, or from the positive effort to acquire it, there is no doubt that only in this way is distance established between the object and ourselves which enables us to accord it a value beyond that of being merely enjoyed. certainly, iron would not be an economic value if its acquisition encountered no greater difficulty than the acquisition of air for breathing; but these difficulties had to remain within certain limits if the tools were to be manufactured which made iron valuable. to take another example: it has been suggested that the pictures of a very productive painter would be less valuable than those of one who was less productive, assuming equal artistic talent. but this is true only above a certain quantitative level. a painter, in order to acquire the fame that raises the price of his pictures, is obliged to produce a certain number of works. again, the scarcity of gold in some countries with a paper currency has created a situation in which ordinary people will not accept gold even when it is offered to them. i would like to show the universal significance of distance for supposedly objective valuation by an example that has nothing to do with economic values and which therefore illustrates the general principle, namely aesthetic valuation. what we call the enjoyment of the beauty of things developed relatively late. for no matter how much immediate sensual enjoyment may exist even today in the individual case, the specific quality of aesthetic enjoyment is the ability to appreciate and enjoy the object, not simply an experience of sensual or supra-sensual stimulation. every cultivated person is able to make a clear distinction in principle between the aesthetic and the sensual enjoyment of female beauty, even though he may not be able to draw the line between these components of his impression on a particular occasion. in the one case we surrender to the object, while in the other case the object surrenders to us. even though aesthetic value, like any other value, is not an integral part of the object but is rather a projection of our feelings, it has the peculiarity that the projection is complete. in other words, the content of the feeling is, as it were, absorbed by the object and confronts the subject as something which has autonomous significance, which is inherent in the object. what was the historical psychological process in which this objective aesthetic pleasure in things emerged, given that primitive enjoyment which was the basis for any more refined appreciation must have been tied to direct subjective satisfaction and utility? perhaps we can find a clue in a very simple observation. if an object of any kind provides us with great pleasure or advantage we experience a feeling of joy at every later viewing of this object, even if any use or enjoyment is now out of the question. this joy, which resembles an echo, has a unique psychological character determined by the fact that we no longer want anything from the object. it seems to me that the essential features of aesthetic enjoyment are foreshadowed here, but they can be shown more plainly if we follow the changes in sensation from the sphere of individual psychology to that of the species as a whole. the attempt has often been made to derive beauty from utility, but as a rule this has led only to a philistine coarsening of beauty. this might be avoided if the practical expediency and sensual eudaemonistic immediacy were placed far enough back in the history of the species, as a result of which an instinctive, reflex-like sense of enjoyment in our organism were attached to the appearance of objects; the physico-psychic connection would then be genetic and would become effective in the individual without any consciousness on his part of the utility of the object. there is no need to enter into the controversy about the inheritance of such acquired associations; it suffices here that the events occur as if such qualities were inheritable. consequently, the beautiful would be for us what once proved useful for the species, and its contemplation would give us pleasure without our having any practical interest in the object as individuals. this would not of course imply uniformity or the reduction of individual taste to an average or collective level. these echoes of an earlier general utility are absorbed into the diversity of individual minds and transformed into new unique qualities, so that one might say that the detachment of the pleasurable sensation from the reality of its original cause has finally become a form of our consciousness, quite independent of the contents that first gave rise to it, and ready to absorb any other content that the psychic constellation permits. the whole development of objects from utility value to aesthetic value is a process of objectification. when i call an object beautiful, its quality and significance become much more independent of the arrangements and the needs of the subject than if it is merely useful. so long as objects are merely useful they are interchangeable and everything can be replaced by anything else that performs the same service. but when they are beautiful they have a unique individual existence and the value of one cannot be replaced by another even though it may be just as beautiful in its own way. we need not pursue these brief remarks on the origin of aesthetic value into a discussion of all the ramifications of the subject in order to recognize that the objectification of value originates in the relative distance that emerges between the direct subjective origin of the valuation of the object and our momentary feeling concerning the object. the more remote for the species is the utility of the object that first created an interest and a value and is now forgotten, the purer is the aesthetic satisfaction derived from the mere form and appearance of the object. the more it stands before us in its own dignity, the more we attribute to it a significance that is not exhausted by haphazard subjective enjoyment, and the more the relationship of valuing the objects merely as means is replaced by a feeling of their independent value. the necessity of sacrifice, the experience that the satisfaction of desire has a price, is only the accentuation or intensification of this relationship. it makes us more distinctly aware of the distance between our present self and the enjoyment of things, but only by leading along the road towards overcoming it. this inner development towards the simultaneous growth of distance and approach also appears as a historical process of differentiation. culture produces a widening circle of interests; that is, the periphery within which the objects of interest are located becomes farther and farther removed from the centre, the ego. this increase in distance, however, depends upon a simultaneous drawing closer. if objects, persons and events hundreds or thousands of miles away acquire a vital importance for modern man, they must have been brought much closer to him than to primitive man, for whom they simply do not exist because the positive distinction between close and far has not yet been made. these two notions develop in a reciprocal relation from the original undifferentiated state. this is a case of confusing subjectivity with the individuality of value. the fact that i want to enjoy, or do enjoy, something is indeed subjective in so far as there is no awareness of or interest in the object as such. but then an altogether new process begins: the process of valuation. the content of volition and feeling assumes the form of the object. this object now confronts the subject with a certain degree of independence, surrendering or refusing itself, presenting conditions for its acquisition, placed by his original capricious choice in a law-governed realm of necessary occurrences and restrictions. it is completely irrelevant here that the contents of these forms of objectivity are not the same for all subjects. even though both may occupy the same place in the series of space, time and quality, the desired object confronts us in a different way and has quite a different significance from the represented object. consider the analogy of love. the person we love is not the same being as our reason represents. i am not referring here to the distortions or falsifications that emotions may produce in the object of cognition; for these remain within the sphere of representation and of intellectual categories, even though the content is modified. it is in a completely different way from that of intellectual representations that the beloved person is an object to us. despite the logical identity it has a different meaning for us, just as the marble of the venus de milo means different things for a crystallographer and an art critic. a single element of being, although recognized as one and the same, can become an object for us in quite different ways: as an object of representation, and as an object of desire. for even though the value of an object is not objective in the same manner as colour or weight, it is also not at all subjective in the sense of corresponding with this kind of objectivity; such subjectivity would apply rather to a perception of colour resulting from a deception of the senses, or of any other quality of the object based on a mistaken conclusion, or of a quality suggested by superstition. the practical relation to objects, however, produces a completely different kind of objectivity, because the conditions of reality withdraw the object of desire and enjoyment from the subjective realm and thus produce the specific category that we call value. so long as objects are close to the subjects, so long as the differentiation of demand, scarcity, difficulties and resistance to acquisition have not yet removed the objects to a distance from the subject, they are, so to speak, desire and enjoyment, but not yet objects of desire and enjoyment. the process that i have outlined through which they become objects is brought to completion when the object, which is at the same time remote and yet overcomes the distance, is produced specifically for this purpose. thus, pure economic objectivity, the detachment of the object from any subjective relationship to the subject, is established; and since production is carried out for the purpose of exchange with another object, which has a corresponding role, the two objects enter into a reciprocal objective relationship. the form taken by value in exchange places value in a category beyond the strict meaning of subjectivity and objectivity. in exchange, value becomes supra-subjective, supra-individual, yet without becoming an objective quality and reality of the things themselves. it has been said that the divine principle, after having created the elements of the world, withdrew and left them to the free play of their own powers, so that we can now speak of an objective cosmos, subject to its own relations and laws; and further, that the divine power chose this independence of the cosmic process as the most expedient means of accomplishing its own purposes for the world. in the same way, we invest economic objects with a quantity of value as if it were an inherent quality, and then hand them over to the process of exchange, to a mechanism determined by those quantities, to an impersonal confrontation between values, from which they return multiplied and more enjoyable to the final purpose, which was also their point of origin: subjective experience. this is the basis and source of that valuation which finds its expression in economic life and whose consequences represent the meaning of money. we turn now to their investigation. the value of an object acquires such visibility and tangibility as it possesses through the fact that one object is offered for another. this reciprocal balancing, through which each economic object expresses its value in another object, removes both objects from the sphere of merely subjective significance. the relativity of valuation signifies its objectification. the basic relationship to man, in whose emotional life all the processes of valuation admittedly take place, is here presupposed; it has been absorbed, so to speak, by the objects, and thus equipped they enter the arena of mutual balancing, which is not the result of their economic value but its representative or content. later on we shall see that an isolated economy also imposes the same necessity of sacrifice for the acquisition of the object, since it confronts economic man with the demands of nature; so that in this case, too, the same relationship endows the object with the same objectively conditioned significance even though there is only one participant in the exchange. the desire and sentiment of the subject is the driving force in the background, but it could not by itself bring about the value-form, which is the result of balancing objects against each other. the economy transmits all valuations through the form of exchange, creating an intermediate realm between the desires that are the source of all human activity and the satisfaction of needs in which they culminate. the specific characteristic of the economy as a particular form of behaviour and communication consists not only in exchanging values but in the exchange of values. of course, the significance that objects attain in exchange is not wholly independent of their directly subjective significance which originally determines the relationship. thus, the following formula is one way in which the relationship of man to the world may be expressed: our practice as well as our theory continually abstracts single elements from the absolute unity and intermingling of objects, in which each object supports the other and all have equal rights, and forms these elements into relative entities and wholes. we have no relationship to the totality of existence, except in very general sentiments; we attain a definite relation to the world only by continually abstracting from phenomena, in accordance with our needs of thought and action and investing these abstractions with the relative independence of a purely inner connection which the unbroken stream of world processes denies to objective reality. the economic system is indeed based on an abstraction, on the mutuality of exchange, the balance between sacrifice and gain; and in the real process of its development it is inseparably merged with its basis and results, desire and need. the interpretation of economic life as interaction in the specific sense of an exchange of sacrifices meets with an objection raised against the equation of economic value with exchange value. it has been argued that even the completely isolated producer, who neither buys nor sells, has to value his products and his means of production, and to form a concept of value independent of exchange if his costs and output are to be properly related. but this fact proves exactly what it is supposed to disprove. the evaluation of whether a particular product justifies the expenditure of a given quantity of work or other goods is exactly the same as the evaluation of what is offered against what is received in exchange. the concept of exchange is often misconceived, as though it were a relationship existing outside the elements to which it refers. but it signifies only a condition or a change within the related subjects, not something that exists between them in the sense in which an object might be spatially located between two other objects. thus, the isolated individual who sacrifices something in order to produce certain products, acts in exactly the same way as the subject who exchanges, the only difference being that his partner is not another subject but the natural order and regularity of things which, just like another human being, does not satisfy our desires without a sacrifice. the valuations that determine his action are generally exactly the same as those involved in exchange. it is of no concern to the economic subject whether he invests his property or labour power in the land or transfers them to another person, if the result for him is the same. this activity is not affected by the secondary question as, to whether the stimulus comes from the nature of things or the nature of man, whether it operates in a subsistence or a market economy. every enjoyment of values by means of attainable objects can be secured only by forgoing other values, which may take the form not only of working indirectly for ourselves by working for others, but often enough of working directly for our own ends. this also clarifies the point that exchange is just as productive and value-creating as is production itself. in both cases one is concerned with receiving goods for the price of other goods in exchange, in such a way that the final situation shows a surplus of satisfaction as compared with the situation before the action. we are unable to create either matter or force; we can only transfer those that are given in such a way that as many as possible rise from the realm of reality into the realm of values. even though our life seems to be determined by the mechanism and objectivity of things, we cannot in fact take any step or conceive any thought without endowing the objects with values that direct our activities. these activities are carried out in accordance with the schema of exchange; from the lowest level of satisfaction of wants to the attainment of the highest intellectual and religious goods, every value has to be acquired by the sacrifice of some other value. it is perhaps impossible to determine exactly what is the starting point and what is the consequence. for the two elements cannot be separated in the basic processes, which make up the unity of practical life; a unity that we cannot grasp as a whole and that we differentiate into these two elements. or, alternatively, a never-ending process occurs between the two, in which every exchange refers back to a value, and each value refers back to an exchange. every synthesis needs the analytical principle which it nevertheless negates, for without this principle it would not be a synthesis of different elements but an absolute unity; conversely, every analysis requires a synthesis which it dissolves, for analysis still needs a certain interconnectedness, without which it would be mere unrelatedness: even the most violent animosity is a stronger relationship than mere indifference, and indifference stronger than simple unawareness. in brief, the inhibiting counter-motion, to eliminate which a sacrifice is required, is often, perhaps even always, the positive precondition of the goal. the sacrifice does not in the least belong in the category of what ought not to be, as superficiality and avarice would have us believe. sacrifice is not only the condition of specific values, but the condition of value as such; with reference to economic behaviour, which concerns us here, it is not only the price to be paid for particular established values, but the price through which alone values can be established. exchange is accomplished in two forms, which i propose to illustrate here with reference to the value of labour. in so far as there is a desire for leisure, or for the use of energy for its own sake in recreation, or for the avoidance of painful effort, all labour is undeniably a sacrifice. however, there is also a certain amount of latent work-energy which either we do not know how to employ or which manifests itself in an impulse to voluntary labour which is not incited by need or by ethical motives. a number of demands compete for this quantity of labour power, the use of which is not in itself a sacrifice, but not all of them can be satisfied. for every use of energy, one or more other possible and desirable uses have to be sacrificed. unless we could utilize the energy to perform labour a also for labour b, there would not be any sacrifice in doing labour a; the same is true for b if we execute it instead of a. in projecting this concept onto objects we assume that things must have length before it can be determined individually by comparison. moreover, definite standards have grown out of the innumerable comparisons of length, and they form the basis for determining the length of all tangible objects. these standards embody as it were the abstract concept of length; they seem no longer to be relative because everything is measured by them, while they themselves are no longer measured. the error is the same as if one believes that the falling apple is attracted by the earth, while the earth is not attracted by the falling apple. finally, we delude ourselves as to the inherent quality of length by the fact that the multiplicity of elements, the relationship of which determines substance, already exists in the individual parts. if we were to assume that there is only a single line in the whole world, it would not have any specific length since it lacks any relation to others. it is impossible to measure the world as a whole, because there is nothing outside the world in relation to which it could have a specific size. this is true of a line so long as it is considered without being compared with others, or without its own parts being compared with each other; it is neither short nor long, but lies outside the whole category. this analogy makes clear the relativity of economic value rather than disproving it. if there is no aesthetic or historical interest attached to them, this is replaced by the mere difficulty of acquiring them; they are worth as much as they cost, which leads to the conclusion that they cost as much as they are worth. furthermore, moral merit always signifies that opposing impulses and desires had to be conquered and sacrificed in favour of the morally desirable act. if such an act is carried out without any difficulty as a result of natural impulse, it will not be considered to have a subjective moral value, no matter how desirable its objective content. moral merit is attained only by the sacrifice of lower and yet very tempting goods, and it is the greater the more inviting the temptations and the more comprehensive and difficult the sacrifice. we realize the specific value of what we gain without difficulty and through good fortune only in terms of the significance of that which is hard to achieve and involves sacrifices; the latter has the same value, but with a negative sign, and it is the primary source from which the former value is derived. of course, these may be exaggerated or exceptional cases. in order to discover their general type in the economic sphere, it is necessary first of all to distinguish the economic aspect, as a special characteristic or form, from the fact of value as a universal quality of substance. if we accept value as being given, it follows from what has been said previously that economic value is not an inherent quality of an object, but is established by the expenditure of another object which is given in exchange for it. wild grain, which can be harvested without effort and immediately consumed without any exchange, is an economic good only if its consumption saves some other expenditure. but if all the necessities of life could be obtained in this way without any sacrifice there would be no economic system, any more than in the case of birds or fish or the inhabitants of the land of milk and honey. whether somebody has found, stolen, cultivated or bought the grain does not make the slightest difference for the act of consumption and its direct consequences. the object, as we have seen, is not yet a value so long as it is only the direct stimulant and a natural part of our sentiments inseparable from the subjective process. the object has to be detached from this in order to gain the specific significance that we call value. desire by itself cannot bring about value unless it encounters obstacles; if every desire could be satisfied completely without a struggle, the economic exchange of values would never have developed, and the desire itself would never have reached a high level. only the deferment of satisfaction through obstacles, the fear of never attaining the object, the tension of struggling for it, brings together the various elements of desire; the intense striving and continuous acquisition. but even if the strongest element of desire came only from within the individual, the object that satisfies it would still have no value if it were abundantly available. exchange is not the mere addition of two processes of giving and receiving, but a new third phenomenon, in which each of the two processes is simultaneously cause and effect. the value that the object gains through renunciation thereby becomes an economic value. in general, value develops in the interval that obstacles, renunciation and sacrifice interpose between the will and its satisfaction. the process of exchange consists in the mutual determination of taking and giving, and it does not depend upon a particular object having previously acquired a value for a particular subject. all that is needed is accomplished in the act of exchange itself. of course, in an actual economic system the value of objects is usually indicated when they enter into exchange. i am referring here only to the inner, systematic meaning of the concept of value and exchange, which exists only in rudimentary form, or as an ideal significance in the historical phenomena or as their ideal meaning. i refer not to their real form, in the historical genetic sense, but to their objective-logical form. this transposition of the concept of economic value from the abstract sphere to that of vital relationships may be further elucidated with the aid of the concepts of utility and scarcity which are generally regarded as constituent elements of value. the first requirement for an economic object to exist, based upon the disposition of the economic subject, is utility. to this, scarcity must be added as a second determining factor if the object is to acquire a specific value. if economic values are regarded as being determined by supply and demand, supply would correspond with scarcity and demand with utility. utility would decide whether the object is in demand at all and scarcity the price that we are obliged to pay. utility appears as the absolute part of economic values, and its degree has to be known so that the objects can enter into economic exchange. scarcity is only a relative factor, since it signifies only the quantitative relationship of the object in question to the total available amount. in the first place, as we have seen, demand is not distinctly conscious unless there are barriers, difficulties and sacrifices between the object and the subject. in reality we exert a demand only when the enjoyment of the object is measured by intermediate stages; when the price of patience, the renunciation of other efforts or enjoyments, set the object in perspective, and desire is equated with the exertion to overcome the distance. secondly, the economic value of the object based upon the demand for it may be interpreted as a heightening or sublimation of the relativity embedded in the demand. for the object in demand becomes a value of practical importance to the economy only when the demand for it is compared with the demand for other things; only this comparison establishes a measure of demand. only if there is a second object which i am willing to give away for the first, or vice-versa, does each of them have a measurable economic value. the fact that one of two objects is more valuable than the other is represented only by the fact that a person is willing to exchange one for the other but not vice-versa. where practical relationships are still simple and limited in scale, a higher or lower value can only be the consequence or expression of the direct practical will to exchange. and when we say that we have exchanged things because they are of equal value, that is only an example of a frequent conceptual-linguistic reversal, as in the case where we believe that we love somebody because he has certain qualities, whereas we have granted him these qualities because we love him; or where we derive moral imperatives from religious dogmas, whereas we actually believe in the dogmas because the moral imperatives vitally concern us. in conceptual terms, price coincides with the economically objective value; without price it would be impossible to draw the dividing line between objective value and the subjective enjoyment of goods. from the standpoint of the contracting subjects, the statement that exchange presupposes equality of values is not correct. a and b may exchange their possessions and because they are of equal value. but a would not have any reason to give away if he received only an equal value by acquiring . must be a greater value for him than a which he owned before; similarly b must gain more than he loses by the exchange. if, therefore, is more valuable than a for a and for b, the differences objectively balance each other as far as an observer is concerned. but this equailty of values does not exist for the contracting party who receives more than he gives away. one should not forget that the objective and just equivalence of value and price, which we regard as the norm for actual particular cases, is valid only under specific historical and technical conditions and collapses immediately with a change in these conditions. there is no general distinction but only a numerical difference between the norm and the individual cases which are recognized as deviating from or conforming with the norm. according to this theory, if price and value diverge, one contracting party exchanges a quantity of objectified labour power against a smaller quantity; but this exchange is affected by other circumstances which do not involve labour power, such as the need to satisfy urgent wants, whims, fraud, monopoly, etc. in a broader and subjective sense, the equivalence of the values exchanged is maintained here, whereas the uniform norm of labour power, which makes possible the discrepancy, does not originate in exchange. first, the general acceptance and approval of robbery, as the subjective and normatively unregulated seizure of what is immediately desired. long after the time of homer, piracy continued to be regarded, in the backward agricultural areas of greece, as legitimate business, and some primitive people consider violent robbery more noble than honest payment. this is also understandable; for in exchanging and paying one is subordinated to an objective norm, and the strong and autonomous personality has to efface himself, which is disagreeable. this also accounts for the disdain of trade by self-willed aristocratic individuals. on the other hand, exchange favours peaceful relations between men because they then accept a supra-personal and normative regulation. a roman antique dealer explained to me once that a deal is successfully transacted when the seller who is asking too much and the buyer who is offering too little eventually meet each other at a point acceptable to both. here one sees clearly how an objectively appropriate price emerges from the bargaining between subjects, the whole process being a vestige of pre-exchange conditions in a predominantly, but not yet completely, exchange economy. exchange already exists as an objective action between values, but its execution is still subjective and its mode and quantities depend exclusively upon a relation between personal qualities. here, probably, we find the ultimate reason for the sacred forms, the legal regulation and tradition which the protection by publicity and accompanied mercantile transactions in early cultures. it was a way of transcending subjectivity to meet the demands of exchange, which could not yet be established by real relations between the objects. so long as exchange, and the idea of value-equality between things, were quite novel, it was impossible to reach an agreement when two individuals had to make the decision themselves. consequently, we find well into the middle ages not only public exchange transactions, but more specifically a precise regulation of the rates of exchange of customary goods which none of the contractors could disregard. it is true that this objectivity is mechanical and external, based upon reasons and forces that lie outside the particular exchange transaction. a really adequate objectivity discards such a priori determination, and includes in the calculation of exchange all those particular circumstances that, in this case, are disregarded. but the intention and the principle are the same: the supra-subjective determination of value in exchange, which is later established by more objective and immanent means. thus the need for the individual to transcend the self and so gain a more than personal support and stability becomes the power of tradition in law, in knowledge and in morality. this indispensable standardization, which transcends the individual subject but not yet subjects in general, is slowly replaced by a standardization that evolves from the knowledge of reality and from the acceptance of ideal norms. that which is outside ourselves, which we need for our orientation, takes the more easily acceptable form of social universality before we are confronted with it as the objective certainty of reality and of ideas. in this sense, which applies to cultural development as a whole, exchange is originally determined by society, until such time as individuals know the object and their own valuations well enough to decide upon rates of exchange from case to case. this suggests that the socially and legally established prices that control transactions in all primitive cultures are themselves only the outcome of many singleexchange transactions which previously occurred in an unregulated way between individuals. but this objection has no greater validity in this case than in the case of language, mores, law, religion; in short, all the basic forms of life that emerge and dominate within the group, and that for a long time appeared to be explicable only as the invention of individuals. in fact it is certain that, from the outset, they evolved as inter-individual structures, in the interaction between the individual and the multitude, so that their origin cannot be attributed to any single individual. i consider it quite possible that the precursor of socially regulated exchange was not individual exchange but a change in ownership, which was not exchange at all but was, for instance, robbery. in that case inter-individual exchange would have been simply a peace treaty and both exchange and regulated exchange would have originated together. the profound relationship between relativity and socialization, which is a direct demonstration of relativity for which mankind presents the material, is illustrated here: society is a structure that transcends the individual, but that is not abstract. historical life thus escapes the alternative of taking place either in individuals or in abstract generalities. society is the universal which, at the same time, is concretely alive. from this arises the unique significance that exchange, as the economic-historical realization of the relativity of things, has for society; exchange raises the specific object and its significance for the individual above its singularity, not into the sphere of abstraction, but into that of lively interaction which is the substance of economic value. no matter how closely the inner nature of an object is investigated, it will not reveal economic value which resides exclusively in the reciprocal relationship arising between several objects on the basis of their nature. each of these relations conditions the other and reciprocates the significance which it receives from the other. but all this, even if carried to its conclusion, would still allow, or even require, a fixed point, an absolute truth. cognition itself, which accomplishes that dissolution, seems to elude the flux of eternal change and the merely relative determination of its content. the dissolution of the absolute objectivity of what is cognized into modes of apprehension that are valid only for the human mind, presupposes an ultimate point somewhere that cannot be derived from anything else. the flux and the relativity of psychic processes cannot affect those presuppositions and norms according to which we decide whether our cognitions have this or that character. the merely psychological derivation, to which all absolutely objective knowledge is supposed to be reduced, depends nevertheless upon certain axioms which cannot have a merely psychological significance if we are to avoid moving in a vicious circle. this is not only a point of the greatest importance for the general view of things on which the following discussion is based, but also provides a model for many particular aspects, and it deserves closer scrutiny. if we admit that our knowledge may have somewhere an absolute norm, a supreme authority that is self-justifying, but that its content remains in constant flux because knowledge progresses and every content attained suggests another which would be more profound and more appropriate for the task, this is not scepticism; any more than it is scepticism when we admit, as is generally done, that while natural phenomena are subject to universal laws, these laws have to be corrected continually as our knowledge increases, that their content is always historically conditioned, and that they lack the absolute character that the concept implies. equally, the ultimate presuppositions of perfected knowledge cannot be regarded as merely conditioned, and only subjectively or relatively true, but every single presupposition that is available at any particular moment should and must be so regarded. this right, however, is not established legally; it is accepted as law as soon as it exists, but its existence is not a legal fact. it lacks entirely the dignity of that which is based upon law. in fact, every power that establishes such a non-legal right strives for its legitimation or for the fiction of legitimacy, as if in homage to that absolute right, which lies beyond all relativity and is unaffected by it, but which is symbolized for us only by deducing every existing legal rule from a preceding one. this reciprocity, in which the inner elements of cognition authenticate the meaning of truth for each other, appears to be upheld by another form of relativity, that between the theoretical and the practical interests of our life. we are convinced that all representations of what exists are functions of a specific physical and psychological organization which do not mirror the outside world in any mechanical way. the images of the world of an insect with its mosaic eyes, of an eagle with its almost inconceivably keen sight, of an olm with its buried, functionless eyes, of ourselves and of innumerable other species, must be profoundly different from each other; and we must conclude that none of them reproduces the content of the external world these representations, which have been characterized at least negatively, form the presuppositions, the material and the directives for our practical activity, through which we establish a relationship with the world as it exists in relative independence of our subjectively determined representation. once these modes of representation have been finally established as expedient through selection and cultivation, they form among themselves a realm of theory that determines, according to inner criteria, the inclusion or exclusion of every new representation; just as the rules of geometry are built upon each other according to a strict inner autonomy, whereas the axioms and the methodological norms that make this whole structure possible cannot themselves be proved geometrically. the whole system of geometry is not valid at all in the same sense as are its single propositions. the latter can be proved by each other, whereas the whole is valid only in relation to something external, such as the nature of space, our mode of perception and the strength of our ways of thinking. from another aspect bearing upon the same question, relativism with reference to the principles of perception may be formulated in the following way: the constitutive principles that claim to express, once and for all, the essence of objects are transposed into regulative principles which are only points of view in the progress of knowledge. the final, highest abstractions, simplifications and syntheses of thought have to renounce the dogmatic claim to be the ultimate judgments in the realm of knowledge. the assertion that things behave in a determinate way has to be replaced, in the context of the most developed and general views, by the notion that our understanding must proceed as if things behave in such and such a way. this makes it possible to express adequately the manner and method of our understanding in its real relation to the world. there corresponds with and originates in the many-sidedness of our being and the onesidedness of any conceptual expression regarding our relation to things is universally and permanently the fact that no such expression satisfactory, but is usually complemented historically by an opposite assertion. this produces, in many instances, an undetermined wavering, a contradictory mixture, or a disinclination to adopt any comprehensive principles. if the constitutive assertions that aim to establish the essence of things are changed into heuristic assertions that seek only to determine our methods of attaining knowledge by formulating ideal ends, this makes possible the simultaneous validity of opposing principles. if their significance is only methodological, they may be used alternatively without contradiction; there is no contradiction in changing from the inductive to the deductive method. the true unity of apprehension is secured only by such a dissolution of dogmatic rigidity into the living and moving process. its ultimate principles become realized not in the form of mutual exclusion, but in the form of mutual dependence, mutual evocation and mutual complementation. all general and particular systems of knowledge meet in this form of the interdependence of thought processes. if one attempts to mutual understand the political, social, religious or any other cultural aspects of the present time, this can be achieved only through history, i. e. by knowing and understanding the past. but this past, which comes down to us only in fragments, through silent witnesses and more or less unreliable reports and traditions, can come to life and be interpreted only through the experiences of the immediate present. no matter how many transformations and quantitative changes are required, the present, which is the indispensable key to the past, can itself be understood only through the past; and the past, which alone can help us to understand the present, is accessible only through the perceptions and sensibilities of the present. all historical images are the result of this mutuality of interpretative elements, none of which allows the others to come to rest. ultimate comprehension is transferred to infinity, since every point in one series refers to the other series for its understanding. psychological knowledge is a similar case. every human being who confronts us is only a sound-producing and gesticulating automaton for our direct experience. we can only infer that there is a mind behind this appearance, and what processes are going on in it, by analogy with our own mind, which is the only mental entity directly known to us. on the other hand, self-knowledge develops only through the knowledge of others; and the fundamental cleavage of the self into an observed and an observing part comes about only through the analogy of the relation between the self and other persons. knowledge of ourselves has therefore to find its way through other beings, whose lives we are able to interpret, however, only from self-knowledge. thus, the knowledge of mental phenomena is an interplay between the i and the you. if these two genetic possibilities are rigidly conceptualized they result in a disturbing contradiction. this does not come about, however, if they are regarded as heuristic principles which stand in a relationship of alternation and interaction. nothing prevents us from attempting to trace any existing state of the world to the mental conditions that have produced it as a content of representations; just as nothing stands in the way of tracing these conditions to cosmic, historical or social facts which could give rise to a mind equipped with these powers and forms. the image of these facts, external to the mind, may again be derived from the subjective presuppositions of scientific and historical knowledge, and these again from the objective conditions of their origin, and so on ad infinitum. truth means the relationship between representations, which may be realized as an infinite construction, since, even if our knowledge is based upon truths that are no longer relative, we can never know whether we have reached the really final stage, or whether we are again on the road to a more general and profound conception; or it may consist in a reciprocal relation within these systems of representations and its demonstration is also reciprocal. but these two processes of thought are related by a peculiar division of functions. it is necessary to consider our mental existence under two categories that complement each other: in terms of its content and in terms of the process that, as an event of consciousness, carries or realizes this content. the structure of these categories is extremely different. we must conceive the mental process as a continuous flux, in which there are no distinct breaks, so that one mental state passes into the next uninterruptedly, in the manner of organic growth. on another occasion, any representation in the whole complex may become questionable, and the one to be investigated may belong to the determinant majority. the tremendous quantitative disproportion between the number of representations that are questionable and those that are established also helps to conceal the reciprocal relation. in this way, the disproportion of weights caused us, for a long time, to notice the gravitational attraction of the earth upon the apple but not that of the apple upon the earth. consequently, a body appeared to have weight as an independent quality, because only one side of the relationship was observed. thus, truth may come to be regarded as a specific quality of an individual representation, because the reciprocal relation between the elements, in which the truth resides, is lost to view on account of the infinitesimal size of the single element in relation to the sum of representations, which are not, for the moment, in question. heuristics, which is only the consequence or the application of the relativistic principle to the categories of knowledge, can accept without contradiction that it is itself a heuristic principle. the question as to the grounding of this principle, which is not incorporated in the principle itself, constitutes no difficulty for relativism, because the ground is removed to infinity. relativism strives to dissolve into a relation every absolute that presents itself, and proceeds in the same way with the absolute that offers itself as the ground for this new relation. this is a never-ending process whose heuristic eliminates the alternative: either to deny or to accept the absolute. it makes no difference how one expresses it: either that there is an absolute but it can be grasped only by an infinite process, or that there are only relations but that they can only replace the absolute in an infinite process. relativism is able to make the radical concession that it is possible for the mind to place itself outside itself. this may suffice by way of allusion to a philosophical standpoint which makes possible a final uniformity of interpretation with reference to the variety of things, and which provides a general context for the interpretation of economic value. since the basic characteristic of all knowable existence, the interdependence and interaction of everything, also refers to economic value and conveys this principle of life to economic material, the essential quality of money now becomes comprehensible. for the value of things, interpreted as their economic interaction, has its purest expression and embodiment in money. in the next chapter we shall examine whether this genetic connection of money with a nonmonetary value has been or can ever be dissolved. at all events, there have been innumerable errors owing to the fact that the essence and significance of money was not conceptually distinguished from the qualities of those values that money evolved by enhancing one of these qualities. we shall first consider money without reference to the material that represents it in substantial form; for the particular qualities that the material adds to money lead to its being subsumed under those goods to which, as money, it stands in contrast. it can be seen at first glance that money constitutes one party, as it were, and the totality of goods bought by money constitutes the other party; so far as its pure essence is concerned, it must be interpreted simply as money, quite apart from all the secondary qualities that connect it with the contrasting party. the position of a body is not a quality of the body itself, but is a relationship to other bodies; and in every change of position, these others, as well as the body itself, may be regarded as the active or passive subject. in the same way, since the value of a consists of its relation to the economic cosmos, it would be equally justified and only less convenient to interpret any change in the value of a as a change in b, c, d and e. this relativity, as practised for example in barter, becomes crystallized in money as the expression of value. how this can happen, will be examined later. the statement that the value of a is 1 mark has purified a of everything that is not economic, i. e. not an exchange relationship to b, c, d and e. this mark, considered as value, is the function of a detached from its carrier, in relation to the other objects of the economy. thus money stands as the measure and means of exchange above valuable objects; and because its services initially require a valuable representative and give value to their representative, money is ranked with those objects and is subsumed under the norms that are themselves derived from money. what is eventually measured as value is not money, which is merely the expression of value, but the objects; and changes in price signify a change in their relations to each other. money, viewed in terms of its pure function, has not changed its value; but a greater or lesser quantity of money reflects that change itself, abstracted from its representatives and assuming an independent form of expression. this condition of money is obviously the same as what is called its lack of qualities and lack of individuality. since it stands between individual objects and in an equal relation to each of them, it has to be completely neutral. here too, money represents the highest stage of development in a continuous series; this series is logically difficult but of great significance for our world view, in which each link, although formed according to the formula of the series and an expression of its inner forces, at the same time differs from the series as a complementing, controlling or opposing power. the starting point of the series is formed by the irreplaceable values whose specific qualities are easily obscured by the analogy with money equivalents. there is a substitute for most things that we own, at least in the widest sense of the word, so that the total value of our existence would remain the same if we were to lose one thing and gain another instead. the sum of happiness can be kept at the same level by a variety of elements. however, in relation to certain objects this exchangeability fails, not only because other possessions cannot give us the same degree of happiness, but because the sense of value is tied to this individual object, and not to happiness, the provision of which the object shares with other objects. the two poles between which all values stand are: at one extreme, the absolute individual value whose significance does not lie in any general quantity of value that could also be represented by another object, and whose position in our value system could not be filled by any other object; at the other extreme, that which is clearly interchangeable. between these two poles things are arranged according to the degree of their replaceability, their position being determined by the extent to which they are replaceable and by the variety of objects that can take their place. this can also be represented by distinguishing in each object the irreplaceable and the replaceable part. most things participate in both qualities, although we are frequently deceived about this, on the one hand, by the volatility of our transactions, and on the opposite side by narrow-mindedness and stubbornness. even those things that are purchasable and replaceable by money probably possess, upon closer scrutiny, qualities whose value cannot be completely replaced by other possessions. money can compensate for the unevenness that exists in any system of barter, and can fill the gap that results from the removal of the object to be consumed. obviously, money can attain this practical position within the economic series only through its ideal position outside the series. if money itself were a specific object, it could never balance every single object or be the bridge between disparate objects. money can enter adequately into the relations that form the continuity of the economy only because, as a concrete value, it is nothing but the relation between economic values themselves, embodied in a tangible substance. this significance of money shows itself further, in an empirical way, as stability of value, resulting from its interchangeability and lack of specific qualities, this is regarded as one of the outstanding and most useful characteristics of money. the length of the series of economic activities, which is a pre-condition for the continuity, the integration, and the productivity of the economy, depends upon the stability of the value of money without which longrange calculations, large-scale enterprises and long-term credits would be impossible. so long as one considers only the price fluctuations of a single object, one cannot determine whether the value of the object changes and the value of money remains stable or vice-versa. stability of money value becomes an objective fact only when price decreases of a commodity or group of commodities are accompanied by price increases elsewhere. a general rise in prices would indicate a decrease in the value of money, and when that occurs the stability of money value is destroyed. so long as objects are measured against each other or exchanged with each other in natura, their subjective and their economic, objective qualities, their absolute and their relative significance are as yet unseparated; they cease to be money or to be capable of being money to the extent that money ceases to be an object of use. money becomes more and more a symbol of economic value, because economic value is nothing but the relativity of exchangeable objects. this relativity, in turn, increasingly dominates the other qualities of the objects that evolve as money, until finally these objects are nothing more than embodied relativity. exchangeability is the prerequisite of economic values, through which the latter attain their objective mutual relation. it unites in one act the distance and the proximity of what is to be exchanged. it has acquired in money not only its technically perfect means, but also a separate, concrete existence which embraces all its various aspects. the philosophical significance of money is that it represents within the practical world the most certain image and the clearest embodiment of the formula of all being, according to which things receive their meaning through each other, and have their being determined by their mutual relations. it is a basic fact of mental life that we symbolize the relations among various elements of our existence by particular objects; these are themselves substantial entities, but their significance for us is only as the visible representatives of a relationship that is more or less closely associated with them. thus, a wedding ring, but also every letter, every pledge, every official uniform, is a symbol or representative of a moral or legal or political, relationship between men. every intellectual, a sacramental object embodies in a substantial form the relation between man and his god. the telegraph wires that connect different countries, no less than the military weapons that express their dissension, are such substances; they have almost no significance for the single individual, but only with reference to the relations between men and between human groups that are crystallized in them. of course, the representation of these relations and connections can itself be regarded as an abstraction, inasmuch as only those elements in it are real whose mutually determined conditions we incorporate in specific concepts. only metaphysical inquiry, which pursues cognition beyond the limits of empiricism, can possibly eliminate this dualism, by dissolving all substantial elements into interaction and processes, the bearer of which becomes subject to the same fate. but practical consciousness has discovered a form by which the processes of relationship and interaction, in which reality is enacted, can be united with the substantial existence, the necessary form of abstract relations in practice. the ability to construct such symbolic objects attains its greatest triumph in money. for money represents pure interaction in its purest form; it makes comprehensible the most abstract concept; it is an individual thing whose essential significance is to reach beyond individualities. thus, money is the adequate expression of the relationship of man to the world, which can only be grasped in single and concrete instances, yet only really conceived when the singular becomes the embodiment of the living mental process which interweaves all singularities and, in this fashion, creates reality. this significance of money would remain even if the value relativity of economic objects were not an initial fact but a final stage of development. the concept with which we define a phenomenon is often not derived from the phenomenon itself but from a more developed and purer form. we cannot infer the nature of language from the first stammerings of the child; and in defining animal life, it will not disconcert us to find that it is only imperfectly represented at the stage of transition from plant life. similarly, it is only in the highest phenomena of our mental life that we can sometimes discover the meaning of the lower phenomena; although we may perhaps be unable to trace it in these at all. the pure concept of a series of phenomena is often an ideal that is never completely realized, the approach towards which, however, makes possible a valid interpretation of the concept. only money, in terms of its pure concept, has attained this final stage; it is nothing but the pure form of exchangeability. it embodies that element or function of things, by virtue of which they are economic. it does not comprehend their totality, but it does comprehend the totality of money. in the following chapter i shall examine how far money in its historical manifestations does represent this idea of money, and whether money in operation does not tend, in some degree, towards another point of reference. through all the discussions of the nature of money there runs the question as to whether money, in order to carry out its services of measurement, exchange and representation of values, is or ought to be a value itself; or whether it is enough if money is simply a token and symbol without intrinsic value, like an accounting sum which stands for a value without being one. the whole technical and historical discussion of this question, which involves the most profound issues in the theory of money and value, would be superfluous if it could be decided by a frequently quoted logical argument. a measuring instrument, it is said, has to have the same quality as the object to be measured: a measure of length has to be long, a measure of weight has to be heavy, a measure of space has to have dimensions; consequently, a measure of value has to be valuable. i will contrast this line of argument with another which produces different results. it is true that, in the example given, we can compare the force of the wind that breaks the branch of a tree with that of the human hand doing the same thing, only so far as this force exists as a quantity in both. but we can measure the force of the wind also by the thickness of the branch that it has broken. i admit that the broken branch does not yet express the amount of energy of the wind in the same sense as the energy of the hand may express it; but the comparative force of two gusts of wind, and thus the relative force of each, can be measured by the fact that one has broken a branch which the other was unable to harm. the following example seems to me to be conclusive. the most heterogeneous objects we know, the two poles of the world view which neither metaphysics nor science has succeeded in reducing to each other, are the motions of matter and the states of consciousness. the pure extension of the one and the pure internality of the other have not so far allowed any point to be discovered that could plausibly be regarded as their meeting ground. nevertheless, the physiological psychologist can measure the relative changes in the strength of conscious sensations by the changes in the external motions that affect our sense organs. since there is a constant quantitative relation between the two factors, the size of one determines the relative size of the other, without any qualitative relationship or identity having to exist between them. the logical principle that appeared to make the ability of money to measure value dependent upon its own value is thus breached. the two objects m and n may have some relationship that has nothing to do with qualitative identity, so that neither one can serve directly as a measure for the other. the relation may be one of cause and effect, of symbolism, of common relationship to a third factor or anything else. let us assume as given that an object a is known to be a quarter of m, and an object b is known to be some quantitative part of n. if a relation exists between a and b, corresponding to the relation m and n, it follows that b equals a quarter of n. in spite of a qualitative difference and the impossibility of any direct comparison between a and b, it is nevertheless possible to determine the quantity of one by the quantity of the other. for instance, there is no relation of identity between a certain quantity of food and the acute need for food that might be satisfied by it; but if so much food is available that half of the need is filled, i can accordingly determine that the available quantity of food equals half of the need. under these circumstances it is sufficient that an overall relationship exists in order to measure the quantities of its parts. if one can now interpret the measurement of objects by money in this fashion, then the idea of their direct comparability and consequently the logical requirement that money itself should possess value becomes untenable. the same basic approach can be found in a wild tribe of laos, who live by trade. their unit of value is the iron hoe, but they also produce gold which they sell to neighbouring tribes and which is the only object they weigh. for the purpose of weighing it they have no other measure than corn, and so they sell one corn measure of gold for one hoe. one against one is the naive expression of an equivalence between these dubious totalities; since the single commodity in barter exemplifies the value of all commodities just as the single monetary unit represents the idea of the total amount of money, it may be assumed that the relation between single units is, at least symbolically, interpreted as a relation between the totalities. if that general element upon which the relationship is based were forgotten, if it operated only practically but not consciously, then it would reveal a profound characteristic of human nature. the limited receptiveness of human consciousness and the economical and expedient manner of its use means that only a small number of the innumerable qualities and aspects of an object that interests us are taken into consideration. it is enough for the different viewpoints that determine the selection and ordering of the factors that attract our attention that the latter can be arranged as a systematic series. this series begins with a succession of phenomena in which only what is common to all is taken into account, only the basis that all the phenomena share, is considered. at the other end of the scale, only the distinctive features of each phenomenon, the absolute individuality, enter our consciousness, while the general and fundamental elements remain unconscious. between these two extremes, there exists at various levels those points or aspects of the total phenomenon upon which the greatest attention is focused. the individual qualities of the members of each family will, in fact, bring about very different conditions according to the general character and the atmosphere that prevail in the family as a whole. this atmosphere provides the basis, often unremarked, upon which the qualities of the individuals develop in their own specific way. the same holds for larger groups. even though all relationships among men depend upon the particular contribution of each individual, they are actually established in a specific form only because there are universal human phenomena and conditions which form the denominator to which individual differences are added as the numerators to produce the totality of the relationship. exactly the same psychological relationship may prevail with respect to money prices. the equation between the value of a commodity and the value of a definite amount of money does not signify an equation between simple factors but a proportion, that is an equation between two fractions, the denominator of which, within a given economic area, is on one side the sum total of all commodities and on the other the total amount of money. these two quantities, of course, have to be more strictly determined. the equation is established by the fact that, for practical reasons, these two sums are posed a priori as equivalents; or, to state the matter more precisely, the practical circumstances in which we handle both categories are reflected in our theoretical consciousness as an equation. however, since this is the general basis of all equations between specific commodities and specific prices, it does not enter our consciousness, but provides the unconsciously operating factor without which the individual instances, which alone are interesting and thus enter into consciousness, could not possibly form a relationship. we now have to deal more specifically with the qualifications to the concept of the total quantity of money. it is not because of the immeasurable quantitative difference between all available commodities and all available money that it is impossible to assert that there is as much money to spend as there are commodities for sale. there exists no direct relation of less and more between the two, because there is no common measure for them as there would be for objects that have identical qualities. no quantity of commodities is related to a definite quantity of money, since all the purposes of money could, in principle, be attained by a quantity of money reduced as much as desired. the extent to which this can be achieved in practice without bringing transactions to a stop is illustrated by the following recorded fact. from this point of view, it can be stated that there is much less money than commodities and that the proportion between the commodity and its price is not at all equal to the proportion between all commodities and all money, but is considerably smaller than this. however, there are two ways in which we can save our basic proposition. first, we might regard as the total quantity of commodities, that quantity that is actually in the process of being sold. to use an aristotelian concept: the unsold commodity is merely a possible commodity, which becomes a real commodity only at the moment of sale. just as money is real money only at the moment when it buys something, i. e. when it exercises the function of money, so the commodity becomes a commodity only when it is sold; until that time, it is only a possible object for sale, an ideal anticipation. the individual also makes his expenditures and accepts the prices for larger purchases not in relation to his momentary disposal of money, but in relation to his total income over a prolonged period. in our equation, the money fraction may attain equality with the commodity fraction through the fact that its denominator is not the quantity of money available as a substance, but is a multiple of this amount determined by the circulation of money during a given period. from this point of view, the antinomy between the stock of available commodities and those commodities that are the value counterparts of money can be solved; and the assertion that no basic disproportion can arise between the total amount of commodities and of money in an autonomous economic area may be upheld. this is true in spite of disagreements about the proper relation between a particular commodity and its price, in spite of the fluctuations and discrepancies that may develop if some definite size of the fractions concerned has become psychologically established while a different one has become more appropriate by reason of objective changes, and in spite of temporary shortages in the means of exchange resulting from a rapid increase in the number of transactions. imports and exports of metal which are the result of a shortage or excess of money in relation to commodity values in a given country are nothing but adjustments within a larger economic area in which particular countries are the provinces; they indicate that a proper relation between two provinces has been restored after changes have occurred in one of them. the relationship between the totalities has, as it were, the significance of an axiom, which is not true in the same sense as are the statements based upon it; only the latter can be proven, whereas the axiom cannot refer to anything from which it could be logically derived. a very important methodological rule is established here, which i will illustrate from a completely different category of values. the basic assertion of pessimism is that there is in life a considerable excess of suffering over happiness, that living beings, considered as a whole or on the average, experience much more pain than pleasure. it is quite impossible to make such an assertion, which presupposes that pleasure and pain can be directly balanced and set off against each other as two qualitatively equal magnitudes with opposite signs. in reality this is impossible because there is no common measure. when we suffer we cannot experience what amount of pleasure would be necessary to compensate for the suffering. the preceding argument has not yet touched upon the question as to whether in reality money has value or not. it was only meant to show that the function of money in measuring values does not impose upon it the character of being itself a valuable object. however, the mere possibility that it does have value opens the road to understanding not only the historical development of money but, above all, its essential nature. in the primitive stages of the economy, use-values appear as money: cattle, salt, slaves, tobacco, hides, etc. whatever the way in which money has evolved, in the beginning it must have been a value experienced as such. it is possible to exchange the most valuable things against a printed form only when the chain of purposes is very extensive and reliable and provides us with a guarantee that what is immediately valueless will help us to acquire other values. at the present time, by comparison, money is no longer valuable because its substance is regarded as a necessity, an indispensable value. no european today regards a coin as valuable because it can be changed into a piece of jewelry. the present-day value of money cannot be traced to its value as metal, precisele because precious metals are available in too great quantities to find a profitably use merely for adornment and for technical purposes. the completion of the process conceived by the theory concerning the value of money as a metal would result in such a multitude of objects made of precious metal that their value would be reduced to a minimum. the valuation of money because of the possibility of converting it into other objects is possible only to the extent that this does happen or happens only on a very small scale. even though at the beginning of the development, i. e. the functional value of money exceeds its value as a substance the more extensive and diversified are the services it performs and the more rapidly it circulates. modern commerce tends more and more to eliminate money as a substantial embodiment of value, and this trend is unavoidable because, even if the production of precious metals were increased to the utmost extent, it would still be inadequate to allow all transactions to be conducted in cash. clearing house business on the one hand and international bills of exchange on the other are only the outstanding examples of this general tendency, the earlier features of which will be discussed in the final section of this chapter. from the problem, the material and the style of each work of art, there evolves a norm which the actual work approaches more or less closely; and it is this relation that makes it possible to compare even the most diverse works of art. the possible conformity of such relations to a norm produces an aesthetic cosmos, a precise order, an ideal homogeneity in relation to value, from the individual works which are initially quite heterogeneous. this is not only true for the world of art. out of the material of our isolated valuations there develops a pattern of graded significance. disharmony is experienced only as a result of the desire for a consistent order and an inner relation of values. we owe this essential feature of our world view to our ability to balance against each other not only two things, but also the relations of these two to two others, and so unite them by judging them equal or similar. money, as a product of this fundamental power or form of our mind, is not only its most extreme example, but is, as it were, its pure embodiment. for money can express the value relation between things realized in exchange only by equating the relation between a specific sum and some general denominator, with the relation between a corresponding commodity and the totality of commodities available for exchange. money is not, by its nature, a valuable object whose parts happen to have the same proportion to each other or to the whole that other values have to each other. the significance of money is only to express the value relations between other objects. it has become evident that the physical availability of a money equivalent becomes less and less essential for the increase of production and wealth, even though large amounts of money are sought not so much for themselves as for definite functional purposes. these purposes can be realized by free-floating processes not involving money in a substantial form, as the international exchange of goods illustrates. the significance of money as expressing the relative value of commodities is, according to our earlier discussion, quite independent of any intrinsic value. just as it is irrelevant whether a scale to measure space consists of iron, wood or glass, since only the relation of its parts to each other or to another measure concerns us, so the scale that money provides for the determination of values has nothing to do with the nature of its substance. this ideal significance of money as a standard and an expression of the value of goods has remained completely unchanged, whereas its character as an intermediary, as a means to store and to transport values, has changed in some degree and is still in the process of changing. money passes from the form of directness and substantiality in which it first carried out these functions to the ideal form; that is, it exercises its effects merely as an idea which is embodied in a representative symbol. the development of money seems to be an element in a profound cultural trend. the different levels of culture may be distinguished by the extent to which, and at what points, they have a direct relationship with the objects that concern them, and on the other hand by the extent to which they use symbols. the way of life is radically different according to whether religious needs are satisfied by symbolic services and formulas, or by a direct approach of the individual to god; whether the respect of people for each other is manifested through established rules that indicate relative positions by specific ceremonies, or through informal courtesy, attachment and respect; whether purchases, agreements and contracts are made by simply making their content known, or are legalized and made binding by an external symbol of solemn undertaking; whether theoretical knowledge deals directly with sense reality or with its representation through general concepts and metaphysical or mythological symbols. but of course, these differences are not rigid. rather, the history of mankind shows a continuous fluctuation between them. but in very recent times this connection has begun to be dissolved again. naturalism in art has drawn our attention to the lack of differentiation and freedom in perception if the same sensations are attached to the word, which is a mere symbol used for artistic purposes, as to the object itself. the representation of indecency is not at all the same thing as an indecent exhibition; and the perception of reality must be distinguished from the symbolical world in which art, including naturalism, exists. perhaps in these circumstances there emerges a greater freedom among educated people in talking about delicate subjects. so long as an objective and chaste attitude can be presupposed, what was formerly forbidden is now allowed; the sense of shame is restricted more to the matter itself and does not affect the word as a mere symbol. thus the relation between reality and symbol fluctuates in narrower as well as in more general areas. each party yields just at the point which, according to its estimate of the respective strength of the parties, would be enforced by an actual strike. the ultima rationis is avoided by anticipating its results through imaginative devices. if such a representation and measurement of real strength could always be made accurately by the imagination, then every battle could be avoided. the utopian suggestion to decide the outcome of future wars by a game of chess between the generals is absurd, because the result of a game of chess does not give any indication of what would have been the outcome of a struggle between the armies, and so cannot symbolize and represent it in a valid way. however, a war game in which the whole armed forces, all fortuitous occurrences, all the intelligence of the leaders, found an appropriate symbolical expression, might possibly eliminate the physical struggle if such a game could be conceived. a certain functional development beyond the types of money with concrete value begins where natural products which are at the same time export articles become means of exchange: tobacco in virginia, rice in carolina, cod in newfoundland, tea in china and furs in massachusetts. in the case of export articles, value becomes psychologically separated from the immediacy which prevails in the domestic use of money. however, the most useful compromise between abstract kinds of money, such as those just mentioned, and money which has intrinsic value, is still jewelry money, that is, gold and silver; this is neither so whimsical and senseless as the former, nor so crude and singular as the latter. gold and silver are obviously the forms through which money can most easily and certainly become a symbol. money has to pass through this incarnation in order to achieve its greatest effects, and it seems unlikely that it will escape from it in the foreseeable future. it appears that even the most useful object must renounce its usefulness in order to function as money. if, for example, in abyssinia specifically cut pieces of rock salt circulate as coins, they are money precisely because they are not used as salt. on the coast of somaliland pieces of blue cotton cloth, each two ells long, used to circulate as money. this was a considerable progress over the use of cloth money that was cut and composed arbitrarily, but nevertheless it indicates a tendency to abandon the use of cloth as cloth. the possible use of gold and silver for technical and aesthetic purposes cannot be realized as long as they circulate as money, and the same is true of all other kinds of money. the various uses that the material of money has for our purposes must all be renounced if it is to be used as money. as soon as such materials reveal their practical, aesthetic or other value they are withdrawn from circulation and are no longer money. all other values may be compared with each other and exchanged according to the measure of their utility in order to acquire a specific value, but money is kept completely apart from this series. for as soon as it is used in the same manner as the value that it buys, it ceases to be money. it may be part of the unique suitability of precious metals as money material that they can easily be restored from some other form to the form of money. nevertheless, at any given moment they have the choice of being either money or jewelry, that is of functioning either as money or as use value. it may appear that money is then assimilated again to the other categories of value. for if i buy a yard of wood for fuel i value its substance only for the heat that it produces and not for any other possible use. in reality, however, the situation is quite different. if it is claimed that the value of money consists in the value of its material, this means that its value is embodied in the qualities or powers of the substance which are not those of money. the apparent paradox indicates that money does not necessarily have to be based upon substances that are intrinsically valuable, i. e. valuable in some other respect. it is sufficient if the ability to function as money is transferred to any substance, the other qualities of which are quite irrelevant. it remains to be seen whether the abandonment of all those value functions that support the theory that money must possess intrinsic value, justifies the conclusion that money can be only money and nothing but money. again, if freedom and self-determination is restored after there has been obstruction of our activity and external enforcement of its direction, our actions then acquire a particular feeling of well-being and value, which arises not from their content or success, but exclusively from the fact that the form of dependency has been eliminated. the same activity, following an uninterrupted series of independent actions, would lack the attraction that springs simply from the passing of a preceding form of life. moreover, what is given to other people often derives its value from what is retained, or indeed resolutely withheld. a cordial expansiveness, especially towards those of lower status, loses its value if it goes too far, if one shows too little reserve. it is all the more important to the recipient that one even offers a part of oneself, when he feels that one has still kept back something of oneself. in the last resort, it is the same with the significance of our own actions and undertakings. sudden and compelling demands often make evident to us that we have abilities and powers for tasks that have hitherto seemed remote; that we have energies that would have remained latent if by chance an emergency had not elicited them from us. this shows that, besides the energies that are actually used, there are indeterminate potentialities which lie dormant in everyone, so that each person could have become something different from what he actually became. life allows only a very limited number among these many possibilities to be realized; consequently, these appear more significant and precious the more we understand that they are a selection from many, that many forms of activity remain undeveloped and have to be sacrificed in order to develop others. since so many possible achievements have to be sacrificed for the sake of one particular accomplishment, the latter represents, as it were, the quintessence of a much wider range of life-energies. by denying growth to these other energies it acquires significance and sharpness, a tone of distinction and accumulated force, which makes it the focus and representative of our total personality, transcending the area with which it is directly concerned. but this simple idea presupposes what it wishes to prove, namely that the substance of money has no value of its own aside from its functioning as money. for if it had such value it would be desired by the wielder of power not so much as money but for its other value as a substance. if such a value does not exist, its absence does not need to be demonstrated again. leaving aside its logical deficiency, however, this case illustrates what specific kind of value money has. money has acquired the value it possesses as a means of exchange; if there is nothing to exchange, money has no value. for obviously, its significance as a means of storing and transporting values is not of the same importance, but is a derivative of the function of money as means of exchange; without the latter, the other functions could not be exercised, whereas its function as means of exchange is independent of them. plato was led, by a profound dissatisfaction with the world of experience to which we are confined, to conceive a metaphysical realm of ideas outside space and time, in which the real, harmonious, absolute essence of things existed. earthly reality, therefore, became void of all real being and significance; but on the other hand, something was reflected back upon it from the realm of ideas; it had at least some part in the glowing realm of the absolute, as its faint shadow, and so it acquired a significance which was at first denied to it. this relationship is repeated and confirmed in the realm of values. the reality of things that confronts the perceiving mind is devoid of values, as we asserted at the beginning of this investigation; it develops in a form indifferent to values, often destroying what is most noble and preserving what is most base, because it does not proceed in terms of a hierarchy of worth, interests or values. the development of money is a striving towards the ideal of a pure symbol of economic value which is never attained. at first, as we must clearly remember, money belongs to the same series as all other objects of value, and its concrete material value is balanced against these. with the growing need for means of exchange and standards of value it changes more and more from a connecting link between value equations to a symbol of these equations and thus becomes more independent of the value of its material. yet money cannot cast off a residue of material value, not exactly for inherent reasons, but on account of certain shortcomings of economic technique. one of these has to do with money as a means of exchange. the substitution of symbolic meaning for the intrinsic value of money is made possible only by a number of factors which we noted earlier. yeteven in the latter case it is certainly not irrelevant for the aesthetic significance of the jewelry that the small amount of metal employed is precious metal. even if this practice is carried to a point where the amount of metal has only a minimal value, this minimum still has to be of precious material for the purpose of decoration and aesthetic pleasure. the intrinsic value of the material is not important, only the fact that the sole adequate bearer of a perfect formal relationship between the parts is a very precious material. it is, by the way, quite obvious that this attribution of the material value of money to a complementing and supporting principle with reference to the uncertain relations is only an interpretation of processes that occur in the subconscious of the economic subjects themselves. economic interactions take place with such admirable expediency, by subtly organized dovetailing of innumerable details, that it would be necessary to assume that they were integrated by a. superior mind, operating with superhuman wisdom, if one did not fall back upon the unconscious power of adaptation of the human species. the conscious intentions and foresight of individuals would not suffice to maintain the harmony that economic activity displays alongside its fearful discords and inadequacies. we have to assume that there are unconscious experiences and calculations which accumulate during the historical development of the economy and which regulate its course. it should be remembered, however, that unconscious conceptions do not provide a satisfactory explanation, but are only aids to understanding that are actually based upon a fallacy. the temptation then to make a new issue of money is generally irresistible, and the process begins all over again. i mention this only as an example of the numerous and frequently discussed failures of arbitrary issues of paper money, which present themselves as a temptation whenever money is not closely linked with a substance of a limited supply. this is shown most clearly by an apparently contradictory example. in the sixteenth century, a french statesman suggested that silver should no longer be used for money, and that coins should be made from iron, because the bulk import of silver from america was depriving this metal of its scarcity. the use of a metal that becomes valuable only by official coinage would provide a better guarantee for the required limitations of the quantity of money, since the supply of money would become unlimited if every owner of silver was thereby automatically an owner of money. this peculiar suggestion shows a very distinct understanding of the fact that a precious metal is not as such the proper material for money, but only in so far as it sets a necessary limit to the supply of money. if a metal fails to do this, then it has to be replaced by another substance, the supply of which can be more effectively controlled. the preference for metal as a means of exchange is the consequence of certain functional qualities; if for any reason these are lacking it is replaced by another currency better qualified in this respect. owing to the poor condition and incalculable variety of coins coming into genoa in 1673, transactions were based on bills of exchange. today we know that only precious metals, and indeed only gold, guarantee the requisite qualities, and in particular the limitation of quantity; and that paper money can escape the dangers of misuse by arbitrary inflation only if it is tied to a metal value established by law or by the economy. this indispensable regulating function of gold, and formerly of silver, is due not to the correspondence between its value and that of the objects for which it is exchanged, but to the relative scarcity of the metal, which prevents the flooding of the market with money and the consequent undermining of the proportion upon which the equivalence of a commodity with a certain amount of money is based. the disruption of this proportion may be brought about from both sides. the excessive increase in money creates pessimism and mistrust among the people, so that they attempt to dispense with money and to fall back upon barter and promissory notes. this reduction of the demand for money leads to a further decline in the value of the money in circulation. it may appear from the foregoing that the inconveniences of an unlimited increase in the volume of money are attributable not so much to the increase itself, but rather to the way in which it is distributed. shocks, hypertrophy and stagnation occur only because the newly created money is initially in one hand and spreads from there in an uneven and inappropriate manner. this might be avoidable if a way could be found of distributing the money equally or according to some principle of equity. thus, it has been said that if every englishman were suddenly to find that he had twice as much money in his pocket, all prices would increase correspondingly but no one would gain any advantage; the only difference would be that the pounds, shillings and pence would have to be calculated in larger amounts. this would not only dispose of the objection to token money but would also illustrate the advantages of an increase in the volume of money, arising from the empirical fact that more money means more transactions, greater well-being, power and culture. even more relevant to our purposes are considerations about the factual implications of this theory; namely, that the doubling of all money incomes would leave everything unchanged, because all commodity prices would be simultaneously doubled. this reasoning is false, because it overlooks a peculiar and decisive characteristic of money, which might be termed its relative inelasticity. this consists in the fact that the distribution of an additional quantity of money in a given economic region does not raise all prices proportionately, but creates new price relationships which do not necessarily result from the power of individual interests. inelasticity is a consequence of the fact that the money price of a commodity, despite its relativity and the absence of an inherent connection with the commodity, nevertheless acquires a certain stability and appears to be the objectively adequate equivalent. if the price of an object has remained stable within definite limits, then it does not usually change without resistance simply because the value of money has changed. the demand would not increase very greatly for those goods that satisfy basic needs, which can be met by a limited supply, or for those that satisfy the most refined and cultivated needs, which are significant only for a limited, scarcely expanding, circle. price increases would affect mainly the goods between these extremes where prices would remain relatively stable. there would be no question of the increased supply of money affecting all prices equally. in general terms, the theory that the relativity of prices renders the absolute quantity of money a matter of indifference is incorrect, because this relativity is in practice continuously disrupted by a psychological process which makes the prices of certain commodities rigid and absolute. it might be argued that these doubts about the harmlessness of an unrestricted increase in the supply of money are valid only for the transitional periods of adjustment between two different price levels. they presuppose that the whole process evolves from a proportional relationship between the quantities of goods and money. it must be possible to establish this relationship at a different level, and future fluctuations could be eliminated just as well as the preceding ones. the doubts can refer only to the period of change, not to the accomplished changes, which cannot be held responsible for the maladjustments, dislocations and difficulties of the transition period. it is impossible to conceive of any means of exchange that would not eventually enforce an adjustment, so that the money price of a commodity expressed the proportion between its value and the value of the total quantity of commodities; and therefore an arbitrary increase in money is unable to disrupt this proportion permanently. this is not a contradiction. a great number of processes occur in the same manner; they closely approach a definite goal by which their course is unambiguously determined, yet they would lose precisely those qualities that led them towards the goal if they were actually to reach it. one phenomenon that is eminently characteristic of the money economy may illustrate this point and provide, at the same time, an analogy for the consequences of unlimited money supply with reference to individual circumstances. the striving of the individual to earn more and more money is of the greatest socioeconomic significance. by seeking the greatest possible gain, the stockbroker brings about liveliness of transactions, the adjustment of supply and demand, the introduction of otherwise sterile values into economic circulation. however, very high profits on the stock exchange can usually be realized only when there is excessive fluctuation of the rates of exchange and a preponderance of purely speculative elements. in such conditions, the production and consumption of goods, which is the ultimate interest of society, is excessively stimulated in one area and neglected in another, and in any case is diverted from the course of development which corresponds with its specific inner conditions and with real needs. here the specific quality of money becomes a basis for the divergence between the individual and the social interest, which has previously coincided up to a point. only through the fact that the value of things has become detached from the objects and has acquired an independent existence in a specific substance is it possible for money to develop interests, movements and norms that, on occasion, act contrary to those of the symbolized objects. the activities of private enterprise, which are connected with money, promote the social interest of the production and consumption of goods so long as they remain merely endeavours, whereas the final attainment of their ends might undermine the aims of society. this type of situation is most frequently and decisively produced in those cases where emotional impulses strive for a final objective without being aware that all the hoped-for satisfaction is the consequence of relative advances, and may perhaps turn into its opposite when the goal is reached. i would call your attention to love, which receives its content and colouring from the desire for the closest and most permanent union, and frequently loses both when its object is attained; or to political ideals, which provide the strength and spiritual fervour in the life of whole generations but which, once they are realized, do not bring about an ideal condition, but practical materialism, torpidity and philistinism; or to the longing for a peaceful and undisturbed way of life, which is the goal of all effort and labour, yet which once accomplished often ends in idleness and inner dissatisfaction. it has indeed become a platitude to say that even happiness, though it is the object of all our endeavours, would be mere boredom if it were ever achieved as an eternal state. this kind of process may be summed up by saying that the effectiveness of some or perhaps all elements of life depends upon the concurrence of opposing elements. the proportion in which an element and its opposite are combined and co-operate are naturally variable, sometimes in the sense that one element steadily increases while the other declines, so that the trend of the development appears to be one in which one element will finally supplant the other. but as soon as this happened and every trace of the second element disappeared, the sense and effectiveness of the first element would also be paralysed. this happens, for instance, with the opposition between individualism and socialism. there are periods in which the latter determines historical development, not only in reality, but also as an inference from ideal convictions and an expression of a developing conception of society which strives toward perfection. but if, in the party politics of such an age, it is then concluded that, since all progress depends upon the growth of the socialist elements, their triumph will produce the most advanced and ideal state of things, this overlooks the fact that the whole success of socialist measures depends upon the circumstance under which they are introduced into an individualistic economic system. the progress resulting from the relative increase of socialist measures does not justify the conclusion that their complete implementation would represent further progress. it is the same with periods of increasing individualism. the significance of individualistic measures depends upon the fact that centralized socialist institutions continue to exist; these can be progressively reduced, but their complete disappearance would lead to unanticipated results differing widely from those that individualism had previously brought about. in the field of art, the contrary tendencies towards naturalism and towards mannerism show a similar pattern. at each particular moment in the development of art there is a mixture of simple reflection of reality and subjective transformation. from the standpoint of realism, art becomes more perfect through the growth of the objective element. but at the very moment when this became the sole content of a work of art the growing interest would suddenly turn to indifference, because the work of art would no longer be distinct from reality, would lose its significance as a separate entity. on the other hand, although enhancement of the generalizing and idealizing element may refine art for a time, it must reach a point where the relation to reality, which the idealistic movement was supposed to represent in a purer and more perfect form, is completely lost as a result of the elimination of all individualistic contingency. the relationship between the intrinsic value of money and its purely functional and symbolic nature may develop in analogous fashion; the latter increasingly replaces the former, but a certain measure of the former has to be retained because the functional and symbolic character of money would lose its basis and significance if this trend were brought to its final conclusion. it is not only a formal analogy that is in question here, but the unity of the deeper meaning of life, which is expressed in this external similarity. in practice, we can only cope with the variety of elements and tendencies that make up life by allowing our behaviour, in every context and at every period of time, to be governed by a uniform and one-sided principle. but in this way the diversity of reality catches up with us again and again, and weaves our subjective striving, along with all those factors that oppose it, into an empirical existence which allows the ideal to enter reality. this does not imply a denial of the ideal; life is adapted to such absolute strivings as its elements, in the same way as the physical world is adapted to motions inconceivable consequences, but that, as a result of their meeting with counterforces, produce the orderly world of natural events. if the practical world is formed in such a way that our will is focused upon eternity and only attains the world of reality by being deflected and rebuffed, then here too the structure of practical life has predetermined the theoretical structure. on innumerable occasions, our concepts of things are made so unalloyed and absolute that they do not reflect experience, and only their qualification and modification by opposing concepts can give them an empirical form. however, these concepts are not for that reason is precisely through this unique procedure of thoroughly bad; exaggeration followed by retraction in the formation of concepts and maxims, that a view of the world which is in conformity with our understanding emerges. the formula through which our mind establishes a relation with the oneness of things, which is not directly accessible, by supplementing and reproducing it, is in practice as well as in theory a primary too-much, too-high, too-pure. it gains the consistency and scope of reality and truth only by means of restraining contrasts. thus, the pure concept of money as the mere expression of the reciprocally measured value of things, which has no intrinsic value of its own, remains completely justified, although in historical reality this concept is consistently disparaged and limited by the contrary concept of money as possessing intrinsic value. our intellect can grasp reality only as a modification of pure concepts, which, no matter how much they diverge from reality, are legitimized by the service they render in the interpretation of reality. on a more profound examination, the dissolution of the concept of money as a substance is much less radical than appears at first sight; for, strictly speaking, the substance value of money is also a functional value. no matter how much precious metals are appreciated simply as substances, they are in fact appreciated only because they adorn, distinguish, are technically useful, give aesthetic pleasure, etc. , that is to say, because they perform functions. their value does not consist in their autonomous being, but always in their performance. their substance as such, apart from their performance, like the substance of all practical objects, is totally irrelevant to us. it may be said of the majority of objects that they are not valuable, but become valuable; and in order to do so they must continually emerge out of themselves and interact with other objects. our sense of value is bound up with the effects that objects produce. this is naturally less easily comprehended, the less lively these functions are in reality. all the misgivings of the middle ages about the taking of interest arise from the fact that money then appeared to be, and actually was, much more solid and substantial, more starkly contrasted with other things, than in modern times when it appears and operates in a much more dynamic, variable and pliable way. at the opposite pole from the mentality of the middle ages is the credit economy, in which the bill of exchange serves as money. the dominant idea in the middle ages was the substance of money, rather than its effects, which were in fact reduced to a minimum, though they could not really be eliminated altogether. in the modern conception of money based upon metal, the vital point is the working of the substance; and finally, in a credit economy there is a tendency to eliminate substance entirely, and to regard the effects as the only important matter. i shall now examine certain structural relationships of the economy. the extent to which it depends upon these relationships and not upon the substance of money, where money really functions as money, may be shown by a negative example based upon a general observation. we notice that, in a relationship between two people, the external form is rarely an adequate expression of its inner intensity. this inadequacy results from the fact that the inner relations develop continuously, while the external relations develop in a spasmodic fashion. even if the two correspond at any given time, the latter persist in their traditional form whereas the former grow. at a certain point, there is a sudden development of the external relationship, and characteristically this does not usually stop at the point corresponding to the inner relationship but anticipates a more advanced intimacy. the general conditions were not such that debts could be collected in spain or from ruling princes without further ado. the new forms of the money economy misled anton fugger into extending them far beyond what was justified by the actual conditions in europe. for the same reasons, the debtors of these financial magnates were no better off. the financial crisis in spain in the sixteenth century resulted from the fact that, although money was usually available in spain, it was not available in the netherlands where it was most needed. consequently, difficulties, delays and expenses arose which contributed to the ruin of spanish finances. in other local conditions money functioned in quite a different fashion. the netherlands had the tremendous advantage in their war with spain in that their money could be used just where it was available. only in a stable and closely organized society that assures mutual protection and provides safeguards against a variety of elemental dangers, both external and psychological, is it possible for such a delicate and easily destroyed material as paper to become the representative of the highest money value. in the middle ages, characteristically, leather money was very often used. if paper money signifies the progressive dissolution of money value into purely functional value, then leather money may be regarded as symbolizing the first step towards it. leather money preserves, out of all the qualities that characterize money as a substance, the quality of relative indestructibility; this quality can be surrendered only when the structure of individual and social relations has reached an advanced stage. these materialistic trends of monetary policy are still closely associated with the idea that the money material represents value as such, but the change from a crudely objective to a functional significance of this material is already discernible. the political constitutions of these periods correspond with this situation. where the medieval fiscal constitution prevails, the prince has only an external, not an organic, relationship to his country, which is established by marriage or conquest and is well indicated by the tendency to extract as much money as possible from the country. the frequent sale of whole territories for money was a logical conclusion of this tendency. the purely monetary connection between ruler and subject demonstrated the absence of any other relationship. the exchangeability of values should be organized without money as an intermediary, just as the administration of society should be accomplished by all citizens without the intervention of the king. in the same way as every citizen has voting rights, so every commodity should represent value without the mediation of money. the trend towards this theory of money, which may be characterized as transcendental by contrast with the materialistic theory, began with the views of adam smith. while materialism asserts that mind is matter, the transcendental philosophy teaches that matter itself is mind. anticipating a more exact knowledge, one may say that money stands between the objects of exchange as the merchant stands between the exchanging subjects. the equivalence between objects of exchange is no longer effected directly, and its fluctuations are no longer concealed; instead, each object acquires a relationship of equivalence and exchange with money. the merchant is the personified function of exchange, and money is the reified function of being exchanged. money is, as i noted earlier, the reification of the pure relationship between things as expressed in their economic motion. money stands beyond the individual objects that are related to it, in a realm organized according to its own norms which is the objectification of the movements of balancing and exchange originally accomplished by the objects themselves. however, this is only a preliminary view. for, in the last analysis, it is not the objects but the people who carry on these processes, and the relations between the objects are really relations between people. the activity of exchange among individuals is represented by money in a concrete, independent, and, as it were, congealed form, in the same sense as government represents the reciprocal self-regulation of the members of a community, as the palladium or the ark of the covenant represents the cohesion of the group, or the military order represents its self-defence. all these are instances of a general type, in which a specific feature becomes detached from the primary phenomena, substances or events to which it was bound in the same way that a quality is bound to its substance or action to its subject. this feature then assumes a structure of its own and the process of abstraction is brought to a conclusion when it crystallizes in a concrete formation. outside exchange, money has as little meaning as have regiments and flags outside the needs of communal attack and defence, or as have priests and temples independently of communal religiosity. the dual nature of money, as a concrete and valued substance and, at the same time, as something that owes its significance to the complete dissolution of substance into motion and function, derives from the fact that money is the reification of exchange among people, the embodiment of a pure function. the developments in the material of money express its sociological character more and more clearly. the use of simple means of exchange such as salt, cattle, tobacco and grain is determined by a pure individual interest, in a solipsistic fashion; that is to say, they are eventually consumed by a single person since no one else has any interest in them at that particular time. the use of precious metals for jewelry, on the other hand, indicates a relation between individuals: people adorn themselves for others. since the whole significance of adornment lies in the psychological process that is incited in other people by the wearer, the precious metals differ fundamentally from the primitive, as it were, centripetal, means of exchange. exchange, as the purest sociological occurrence, the most complete form of interaction, finds its appropriate representation in the material of jewelry, the significance of which for its owner is only indirect, namely as relation to other people. this new and broader character of exchange is established when the value of exchange given by one party has no direct value for the other party, but is merely a claim upon other definite values; a claim whose realization depends upon the economic community as a whole or upon the government as its representative. when barter is replaced by money transactions a third factor is introduced between the two parties: the community as a whole, which provides a real value corresponding to money. the pivotal point in the interaction of the two parties recedes from the direct line of contact between them, and moves to the relationship which each of them, through his interest in money, has with the economic community that accepts the money, and demonstrates this fact by having money minted by its highest representative. this is the core of truth in the theory that money is only a claim upon society. economic credit does contain an element of this supratheoretical belief, and so does the confidence that the community will assure the validity of the tokens for which we have exchanged the products of our labour in an exchange against material goods. this is largely, as i have said, a simple induction, but it contains a further element of social-psychological quasireligious faith. the feeling of personal security that the possession of money gives is perhaps the most concentrated and pointed form and manifestation of confidence in the socio-political organization and order. the subjectivity of this process is, so to speak, a higher power of the subjectivity that creates the value of precious metals in the first place. the latter is presupposed, but now it has a practical outcome in money transactions through that two-sided faith. this also illustrates that the development from material money to credit money is less radical than appears at first, because credit money has to be interpreted as the evolution, growing independence and isolation of those elements of credit which already exist in fact in material money. the guarantee for the continuous usefulness of money, which is the essence of the relation of the contracting parties to the whole social group, has, however, a peculiar form. from an abstract point of view, this guarantee does not exist because the owner of money cannot force anybody to give him something for money, even for money that is indisputably good; this becomes evident in cases of boycott. only where obligations already exist can the creditor be forced to accept money in settlement of the obligation, and even that is not the case in all legal systems. the possibility that the claim that money represents will not be satisfied confirms the character of money as mere credit; for it is the essence of credit that the probability of realizing it is never one hundred per cent, no matter how closely it may approach it. the individual is free, in fact, to transfer his product or other possessions to the owner of money or to retain them, whereas the community is dutybound to him. some contrary trends prove the same rule. the essential advantage of medieval rights of coinage consisted in the fact that the sovereign was allowed to coin new pennies in his domain at any time and to enforce the exchange of all old coins, or foreign coins, that entered the area as a result of trade, against the new ones; with each debasement of his coins he profited by the difference between the new and the exchanged coin. but this advantage depended upon a large domain, for in small areas the privilege of coinage did not pay because the market for the coins was too small. if the profit from debasement of the coinage had not been contingent upon the size of the area, the chaos of coins in germany would have been much worse, because of the terrible frivolity with which the privilege of coinage was granted to every monastery and every small town. just because the socioeconomic structure of a domain required stable money, the profit to be had from an enforced inferior money was considerable. when the scope of trading expands, the currency also has to be made acceptable and tempting to foreigners and to trading partners. the extension of the economic area leads, ceteris paribus, to a reduction of direct contact; the reciprocal knowledge of conditions becomes less complete, confidence is more limited, and the possibility of getting claims satisfied is less certain. under such conditions, no one will supply commodities if the money given in exchange can be used only in the territory of the buyer and is of doubtful value elsewhere. the seller will demand money that is valuable in itself, that is to say accepted everywhere. the increase in the material value of money signifies the extension of the circle of subjects in which it is generally accepted, while in a smaller circle its negotiability may be secured by social, legal and personal guarantees and relationships. if we suppose that the usefulness of money is the reason for its acceptance, its material value may be regarded as a pledge for that usefulness; it may have a zero value if negotiability is assured by other means, and it will be high when the risk is great. however, expanding economic relations eventually produce in the enlarged, and finally international, circle the same features that originally characterized only closed groups; economic and legal conditions overcome the spatial separation more and more, and they come to operate just as reliably, precisely and predictably over a great distance as they did previously in local communities. to the extent that this happens, the pledge, that is the intrinsic value of the money, can be reduced. just as money was acquired by unproductive methods, through war, tribute and money-changing, so also it was lent for consumption, not for production. thus, interest obviously could not be interpreted as a natural product of capital; and the vague, inorganic relationship between capital and interest that emerged from this situation is reflected in the difficulty of coming to grips with the problem of interest, which persisted far into the christian era. only the concept and fact of productive capital eventually provided a practical solution. the earlier situation forms a striking contrast with that of the present time, in which the significance of capital depends not on what it is, but on what it performs. it has changed from a rigid element, estranged from production, to a living function within production. this view overlooks the fact that the difference between metallic and paper money is only relative; that, as money, each consists merely in the substantiation of the exchange function through a common relation of the interested parties to an objective institution, and that money can perform its function only to the extent that the issuing institution represents and expresses the interests of the whole area. consequently, local rulers sometimes attempt to give their coins at least the appearance of issuing from a more comprehensive institution. even centuries after the deaths of philip and alexander, coins with their names and seals were minted at a number of places, giving the appearance of being royal coins although they were in fact the coins of particular cities. progressive development strives in reality for the expansion, and consequently the centralization, of the institutions and powers that guarantee money values. it is a significant feature of this development that the treasury bonds that governments issued before the eighteenth century were the first to create a claim upon state revenues as a whole. the main point, however, is that the significance of metal in monetary affairs recedes more and more into the background, as compared with through community safeguarding institutions. for metal is originally always private property, and public interests and public forces can never gain absolute control over it. one might say that money becomes increasingly a public institution in the strict sense of the word; it consists more and more of what public authorities, public institutions and the various forms of intercourse and guarantees of the general public make of money, and the extent to which they legitimize it. it is significant, therefore, that in earlier periods money could not yet be based only on its abstract function: money transactions were tied either to specific enterprises, to the technical production of coins, or to the trade in precious metals. at the beginning of the thirteenth century, the regular business of exchange was carried out in vienna by the cloth-dyer, in england, and to some extent also in germany, by the goldsmith. the growing depersonalization of money and its closer relationship to a centralized and more extensive community are directly and effectively connected with the accentuation of those functions that are independent of the metallic value. the value of money is based on a guarantee represented by the central political power, which eventually replaces the significance of the metal. there is here an analogy with a neglected aspect of valuation. when the value of an object is due to the fact that it makes possible the acquisition of another object, its value is then determined by two factors: the intrinsic value of the object to be acquired, and the degree of certainty that it can acquire that object. a diminution in one of these factors may leave the total value unaffected, within certain limits, if it is accompanied by an augmentation of the other factor. thus, for example, the significance of one of our perceptions depends both upon its reliability and upon the importance of what is perceived. in the natural sciences, the factor of reliability tends to be more important, in the social sciences the significance of the object perceived; and thus there may be equality in the value of perceptions in these two fields. only if we follow aristotle in not doubting the certainty of knowledge can the value of perception be regarded as depending solely upon the value of the object. the value of a lottery ticket is a product of the probability that it will be drawn and of the size of the possible prize; the value of an action is a product of the probability that its purpose will be accomplished and of the importance of this purpose; the value of a bond is composed of the security of the capital and the rate of interest. money does not function in exactly the same way, for its growing reliability is not associated with a declining value of the object that it can acquire. but the analogy is still valid in so far as the growing certainty that coin will be accepted at its face value makes possible a diminution in the intrinsic value of the metal content without altering the total value. on the other hand, the causes as well as the effects of the sociological position of money bring about a situation in which the relations between the central power of the group and its individual elements become stronger and closer because the relations among these elements themselves are now channelled through the central power. the carolingian rulers plainly attempted to replace barter and the exchange of cattle by a money economy. they frequently decreed that coins were not to be rejected and they punished rejection severely. it is only a generalization of the same trend that great princes often created powerful coinage systems, as did darius i, alexander the great, augustus, diocletian and others down to napoleon i. the whole technique which supports a great social power in a barter economy encourages self-sufficiency and the creation of a state within the state, as happened with the large territorial domains from the time of the merovingians, whereas the equivalent power institutions in a monetary economy have developed and persisted in alliance with the state organization. the modern centralized state, therefore, came into being partly as a result of the prodigious growth of the money economy which followed the opening up of the gold and silver resources of america. the self-sufficiency of feudalism was destroyed by the fact that every transaction depended upon the use of coins, involving a central power and extending the relationships of the contracting parties beyond the coinage itself, with the result that the power of money to bind the individual more closely to the crown came to be regarded as the deeper meaning of the mercantilist system. the fact that the territorial rulers wrested this means of centralization from the german emperors is considered one of the essential reasons for the breakdown of the german empire; the french and english kings of the thirteenth and fourteenth centuries, on the other hand, established the unity of their states with the aid of this trend towards money transactions. after the russian empire was already unified, ivan iii gave sovereignty over parts of the country to his younger sons, but he retained for the central power the rights of coinage and the administration of justice. the area of loose trade relations outside political boundaries grows remarkably in extent and consistency once the stability of the official money makes it generally acceptable and thus enables it to draw all parts of the trading area into a closer relationship with the country in which it originates. the rate of exchange of the english sovereign gave considerable prestige to english trade in portugal and brazil and made the trade relations with these countries very close. in germany soon after the carolingian period the king granted the right of coinage to various individuals and religious establishments, but retained control over the alloy, quality and form of the coins. before the twelfth century, however, those who had such rights of coinage were allowed to determine for themselves the standard and form of coinage, and were thus able to make as much profit as they wished. whereas most other objects are used up, disappear and are replaced in an unending process, money with its almost unlimited durability remains unaffected by this change of individual objects. as a result, it is raised above these objects, just as the objective unity of a social group is raised above the variation of its individual members. it is precisely the characteristic form of life of these reified abstractions of group functions, that they exist outside their embodiment in real individuals, as stable formations amid the transitory individual manifestations, which are, so to speak, integrated into them, formed by them and then released again. such, for example, is the immortality of a king, which is independent of the accidents of his personality, his particular acts, or the changing fortunes of his society; the well-nigh indestructible coin with his portrait upon it is a symbol and a demonstration of this fact. the business of finance on a large scale began only in the sixteenth century with the business transactions of princes; the intercourse with princes that followed raised the financiers to a position of royal dignity, while trade in commodities came to appear plebeian. the hatred that the socialists have for finance, therefore, may not only be directed against the power of the capitalist over the worker in private enterprise; it may also arise from anti-monarchical instincts, for even though the reification of the social whole, which is a prerequisite of money, need not necessarily take a monarchical form, it is in fact monarchy that has most strongly favoured the intervention of a central power in the economic functioning of the group. moreover, the fixed residences of princes, which require centralization, are possible only with the emergence of money taxes, for taxes paid in kind cannot be transported and they are appropriate only to a wandering court which consumes them as it goes. it is in the same spirit that modern tax policy tends to leave taxes on real property to local authorities, and to reserve income tax for the state. by focusing the tax demands of the central power upon the money income of the individual, it grasps precisely the kind of property with which it has the closest relation. the development of officialdom, with its close relation to finance, is thus only a symptom of the trend towards centralization. feudal administration was decentralized, and the interest of the vassal with his distant landed property separated him from the central power, whereas regular money payments draw the officials toward the central power, and continually reaffirm his dependence. at the beginning of the nineteenth century the sublime porte, as a result of the continuous debasement of the currency, was obliged to mint coins of double weight for the officials and officers, because it was precisely in its relations with state officials that money of full value was needed. in greek culture this relation was represented not by political, but by religious, unity. all greek money was once sacred; it emanated from the priesthood, as did other generally valid concepts of measure referring to weight, size and time. this priesthood represented at the same time the unity of the various regions. the earliest associations developed on a religious basis, and in some cases they covered relatively large areas. the shrines had a non-particularistic centralizing significance, and money expressed this by bearing the symbol of the common god. the religious social unity, crystallized in the temple, became active again through the money that was put into circulation, and money acquired a basis and a function far beyond the significance of the metal content of the individual coin. supported by, and supporting, these sociological constellations, the function of money grew in significance at the expense of its substance. a few examples and reflections will make this process clear. the value of money may be increased or decreased independently of its material value by an expansion or contraction of the function of money, even in the case of its value stability, which is closely connected with its material value. the roman emperors had the exclusive right to mint gold and silver coins, while copper coins, which were used in everyday transactions, were minted by the senate or, in the eastern provinces, by the towns. this provided some kind of guarantee that the emperor would not inundate the country with small coins of no substantial value. the final outcome was that the emperors continued their debasement of the silver coinage which led, in due course, to the total collapse of the roman coinage. this produced a strange reversal of value relationships: as a result of debasement, silver coins became the means for everyday transactions, while copper coins, which had not changed in value, became increasingly the standard of value. the original role of the metals as representatives of money value was reversed by a change in the relative stability of their value. the it has been emphasized recently, with reference greater importance of stability value as against material value, that a transition from paper currency to the gold standard does not necessarily involve a resumption of gold payments. in a country such as austria, where the currency notes are at parity with silver, a changeover to the gold standard would bring about the decisive advantage of a stabilization of money value, and would accomplish the vital function of gold without using the material itself. in recent times, the interest in the stability of money value has even led to proposals for abolishing the metal reserve against which notes are issued. so long as such a reserve exists, the various countries belong to a common system which submits domestic transactions in each country to all the fluctuations of political and economic events in all the other countries. unguaranteed paper money, since it could not be exported, would have the advantage of being available for all kinds of enterprises within the country, and above all of having complete value stability. however much this theory may be open to criticism, the mere suggestion illustrates how the concept of money has been psychologically separated from the concept of a money material and how it is gradually being perfected through the notion of functional services. all these functions of money are obviously subject to the conditions that apply to the general dissolution of money into functions; at any given time they are only partially valid, and the concepts indicate a line of development the goal of which is never reached. the fact that the values that money is supposed to measure, and the mutual relations that it is supposed to express, are purely psychological makes such stability of measurement as exists in the case of space or weight impossible. in practice, the stability of value is accepted as a fact when any question arises concerning the repayment of a money loan after the value of money has changed. if the value of money has declined generally so that the same sum is of lesser value when it is repaid, then the law disregards this fact; the identical sum of money is taken to be of identical value. if the coinage has been debased by alloying or by changing the standard, then the law may decide that the debt shall be repaid according to the new standard, or according to the metal content of the new standard, or simply at its nominal value. generally speaking, the view prevails that money retains its value unchanged. such stability is, of course, also a fiction where other objects are concerned and no one doubts that, for example, fifty pounds of potatoes lent in the spring may be worth either more or less when they are later returned in kind. in such a case, however, reference can be made to the direct significance of the object; while the exchange value of potatoes may fluctuate, their value in providing satisfaction and nourishment remains unchanged. money, however, has no value of this kind, but only exchange value, and the assumption of its value stability is thus all the more striking. reasons of expediency will tend to ensure that this essential fiction becomes true. i have already indicated that in the case of money which is made from precious metals the connection with jewelry helps to maintain stability of value; as the demand for jewelry is highly elastic, it absorbs a larger quantity of the growing supply of precious metals and thus prevents too great a pressure upon their value, and on the other hand a growing need for money can be satisfied by drawing upon the stock of jewelry, from which the required quantity can be taken and a rise in the price of precious metals avoided. the continuation of this trend seems to imply as its goal the complete elimination of the material basis of money. for even a material as suitable as a precious metal cannot altogether avoid fluctuations that result from particular conditions of demand, production and processing, which have little to do with the fact that the metal also serves as a medium of exchange and as an expression of the relative value of goods. perfect stability of the value of money could be attained only if it were nothing in itself, but only the pure expression of the value relationship between concrete goods. money would then reach a neutral position which would be as little affected by the fluctuations in commodities as is the yardstick by the different lengths that it measures. the value of money established by the performance of this service would then also reach its maximum stability, because the relationship of supply and demand could be regulated more easily than when it depends upon a substance the quantity of which we can never fully control. thus, to return to the analogies used previously, while the deepest and most sublime love may be that between two souls, which excludes all carnal desire, so long as such love is unattainable, the sentiment of love will develop most fully where a spiritual relation is complemented and mediated by a close sensual bond. paradise may fulfil the promise of eternal bliss under conditions in which the consciousness of bliss no longer requires the contrast of opposite emotions, but, as long as we remain human, positive happiness depends upon the contrast with our other experiences of pain, indifference and depression. thus, although money with no intrinsic value would be the best means of exchange in an ideal social order, until that point is reached the most satisfactory form of money may be that which is bound to a material substance. this condition does not imply a deviation from the persistent trend towards the transformation of money into a purely symbolic representative of its essential function. this leads us to the subject of the representation of money values by equivalents, in so far as this illustrates that one of the essential services performed by money is to make values more mobile. the more the significance of money as a means of exchange, a standard of value and a method of storing value increases in relation to its material value, the more easily it can circulate in the world in a form other than metal. the same substantial development determinateness of money to the representation of money occurs also in these representations themselves; for example, in the evolution of the bill payable to the bearer from the promissory note given by one individual to another. the various stages of this development have still to be traced. the stipulation, in the acknowledgment of a debt, that the bearer as well as the original creditor is entitled to collect the money, is found already in the middle ages; but its object was to facilitate collection of the debt by a representative of the creditor, not to allow the transfer of the value. this purely formal mobility of paper values was given a more real content in the french billet en blanc which was current on the stock exchange in lyons. it was still worded to refer to an individual creditor, but without specifying his name; only after a name had been inserted in the vacant space was the individual creditor determined. the trade in bills of exchange was first properly established in antwerp in the sixteenth century. initially they were often rejected at the due date if they were not accompanied by a note of transfer, and an imperial order had to be issued asserting their general validity. here we have a very clear succession of stages. it may be noted more generally that credit and cash do not simply replace each other, but that each produces a more lively activity of the other. at times when there is most cash on the market, credit activities also often expand exuberantly, even to a pathological degree, as in the sixteenth century when large imports of precious metals were associated with a vast and insecure expansion of credit and feverish activity in company-promoting in germany. the fact that the extent of money and credit increase together shows that they render the same services, and when the functions of one of them are enhanced the other is also provoked into more lively activity. this does not contradict the other relation between money and credit, in which credit makes cash superfluous; we are told, for instance, that there was less cash available in england in 1838 than fifty years earlier in spite of the tremendously increased production, and in france there was less than before the revolution. this dual relationship between two phenomena, which arise from the same motive, on one side to stimulate each other and on the other side to limit or supplant each other, is easily conceivable and not at all rare. i would remind you that the fundamental emotion of love can manifest itself sensually and spiritually in such a way that these two forms strengthen each other, but also in such a way that the one seeks to eliminate the other; and that very often an interplay between the two possibilities expresses the basic emotion most fully and vividly. the significance of credit, both as inciting a greater circulation of cash and as taking the place of this cash circulation, indicates the unity of the service which these two means of exchange render. finally, some of the effects of money have a sense that is incongruous with the nature of the money material itself. it is one of the functions of money to concentrate, as well as to represent, the economic significance of objects in its own idiom. the unity of the sum of money that is paid for an object incorporates the values of all the elements of its uses, extending perhaps over a long period of time, as well as the particular values of its spatially separate parts and the values of all the powers and substances that prepared, and finally ended in, money. a money price, no matter how many coins it includes, is still a unity. the complete interchangeability of its parts confines the meaning of money exclusively to its quantitative sum, and the parts form a total unity which scarcely exists elsewhere in practical life. money is thus one of the great cultural elements whose function it is to assemble great forces at a single point and so to overcome the passive and active opposition to our purposes by this concentration of energies. we should think of the machine in this context, not only for the obvious reason that machinery directs the forces towards our desired ends, but also because every improvement and speeding up of machinery imposes a greater intensity of work upon the worker. this is precisely the reason why progress in technology and the shortening of working time can and must go hand in hand, because the powers of nature and of man serve our purposes in a more concentrated form through improved machinery. we can observe the same cultural tendency at work in the growing pre-eminence of laws of nature in shaping our world view; compared with the preoccupation with individual phenomena, or the fortuitousness and narrowness of crude empiricism, a law of nature represents a tremendous concentration of knowledge, summarizing in a brief formula the characteristics and movements of innumerable instances. through laws of nature the mind compresses the vast array of spatial and temporal events into an intelligible system which contains, so to speak, the whole world. there is no contradiction in asserting that, at the same time, the functions of those earlier close communities have been transferred, for the most part, to a much more extensive association, the state. from the point of view of its actual achievements, the life of the modern state, with its bureaucracy, its powers and its centralization, is much more intensive than that of small primitive communities. the modern state is based upon an extraordinary collectivization, integration and unification of all political forces; compared with the waste of energy in a nation that is subdivided into small-scale autonomous communities, the free and differentiated personality on the one hand and the modern state on the other represent an unrivalled concentration of forces. in this way the energy of society acquires a form that allows a minimum effort to achieve the maximum effect in face of each particular need. this process might be called the growing spiritualization of money, since it is the essence of mental activity to bring unity out of diversity. in the sensible world, things exist side by side; only in the sphere of the mind are they integrated. the elements of a concept form a unity, as do subject and predicate in a proposition; there is no equivalent in the world of directly perceived phenomena. the organism, as the bridge between matter and mind, is the first step towards such an equivalent; interaction merges its elements and it strives constantly for an unattainable perfect unity. only in the mind, however, does interaction become real integration. the interaction of exchange brings about a mental unity of values. the spatially extended substance the disconnectedness of what exists as substance contradicts the nature of money as an abstract representation of interaction. only to the extent that the material element recedes does money become real money, that is a real integration and a point of unification of interacting elements of value, which only the mind can accomplish. if the functions of money can be exercised in part side by side with its material, and in part independently of the quantity of this material, and if therefore the value of money declines, then this does not mean that there is a general decline in the value of money, but only in determinate quantities of it. the two things do not coincide, and it might almost be said that the less valuable any given quantity of money becomes, the more valuable is money generally. for only when money is cheap and any given amount of it less valuable can it have the wide diffusion, rapid circulation and general utility that assure its present role. the same relationship between a particular quantity of money and money in general prevails in the individual mind. it is just the spend-thrifts, who part most easily with money for specific purchases, who are at the same time most dependent on money in general. this is one of the meanings of the saying that one can despise money only if one possesses it in abundance. for example, the size and significance of a social group often becomes greater the less highly the lives and interests of its individual members are valued; the objective culture, the diversity and liveliness of its content attain their highest point through a division of labour that often condemns the individual representative and participant in this culture to a monotonous specialization, narrowness and stunted growth. the whole becomes more perfect and harmonious, the less the individual is a harmonious being. the same phenomenon appears in impersonal things. the charm and perfection of certain poems consists in the fact that the individual words have no independent meaning; they serve the dominant emotion or the artistic purpose of the whole, and all the varied associations that make up the full meaning of the word are excluded, except for those that bear upon the central theme of the poem. the whole poem is artistically more perfect to the extent that its individual elements lose their meaning. the monopoly of the government is formulated with characteristic rigour in a chinese law which punishes the counterfeiter who uses genuine precious metals more severely than one who uses inferior materials; the former enters into a more improper competition with the government and infringes its prerogative more profoundly. if everyone were allowed to mint coins their value would indeed decline to the value of the material plus labour, and the advantages of monopoly would be eliminated. thus, ethnologists have observed that the power position of wealthy men and chiefs is easily undermined when everyone can produce money, as in the case of shell money. conversely, anyone who possesses money shares to that extent in the privilege of the state to coin money, just as the buyer of a patented object shares in the patent of the inventor. the sublimation and objectification of such feelings is the aesthetic function in both the production and the consumption of art. in the same way, we value cognition as a formal function of the mind which reflects the external world, regardless of whether the objects and results of cognition are gratifying or distasteful, useful or merely ideal. this differentiation of value feelings has yet another important aspect. the evolution of the modern naturalistic spirit tends to dethrone universal concepts, and to emphasize singular instances as the only legitimate content of conceptions. in theory and in practice, the universal is treated as something purely abstract which acquires meaning only in its material embodiment, that is in tangible instances. in rising above these concrete instances one seems to enter a void. yet the sense of the significance of universals, which reached its climax with plato, has not altogether disappeared; and we should attain completely satisfying relation to the world only if every aspect of our world view reconciled the material reality of singular instances with the depth and scope of a formal universality. historicism and a sociological world view are attempts to confirm universality and yet to deny its abstractness, to transcend the singular instance, to derive the singular from the general without sacrificing its material reality; for society is universal but not abstract. the valuation of functions as distinct from content has its place here. function is universal in relation to the purpose that it serves. religious sentiment is a universal by contrast with the content of a particular creed; cognition is universal as against any one of its particular objects; power is universal by contrast with the specific and varied problems to which it is always applied in the same way. all of these are forms and frameworks which comprehend a great variety of material. the controversy over the relevance of causality or teleology to human action may thus be decided in the following way. since the consequences of action exist in a psychologically effective form before they acquire an objective existence, a strict causal relation can be upheld. only those intellectual conceptions that have become psychological forces need be taken into account, and thus cause and effect are entirely distinct, whereas the identity between the intellectual content of motive and consequences has absolutely nothing to do with the actual production of events. this does not meant that the real purpose of all purposive action is located in the acting subject, that the reason for attaining an objective always lies in the feelings that are retroactively aroused by the object. this may be the case in egoistic actions proper, but there are innumerable other actions in which the identity of motive and result is concerned only with the result in the sense of attaining the object, with the non-subjective happening. the inner energy which determines our action frequently takes into account consciously only the objective result, and excludes from the teleological process any further retroactive effects upon ourselves. yet unless the result of our activities ultimately produced an emotion in us, the conception of it would not generate any motive force to bring it into existence. this final link in the chain of action is not, however, its final purpose; our teleologically determined volition ends very often with the objective result and does not consciously inquire beyond this point. this contrast makes clear the specific significance of what was emphasized above, that purposive action is an interaction between the committed self and external nature. the mechanism that exists between the will and its satisfaction constitutes, on the one hand, a bond and, on the other, a separation between them. this mechanism signifies the impossibility for the will to gain satisfaction by itself; it represents the obstacle that the will has to overcome. purposefulness is essentially a relational concept since it always presupposes something alien to the purpose that has to be transformed. if such a transformation were not necessary, if the will contained its realization within itself, there would be no formation of purposes. our own action in pursuit of our purposes is the first case in which we become aware of the dual character of the means; in such action we experience both the resistance of external reality and the directing into energy which overcomes consciousness, each developing its particular character. if our action is unable to produce the object of our purpose immediately, but must first bring about another external event which eventually produces the desired result, then the intermediate happenings have the same quality as our own action; both are mechanisms, but both are also mechanisms that connect mind with mind; both have a continuity in producing the arc of events which begins and ends in the mind. the average number of links in this arc within a given form of life indicates the degree of knowledge and control of nature, as well as the breadth and refinement of the way of life. it is here that social complexities begin which culminate in the creation of money. a teleological chain can never occur unless the causal connections between its elements are known. the purpose repays this service by providing the psychological impulse to seek out causal relations. thus, the factual and logical possibility of the teleological chain depends upon the causal relation, but the interest of this causal chain, its psychological possibility, arises from the pursuit of an end. this interaction, which expresses in a general sense the relation between theory and practice, results in the fact that the more profound awareness of causality goes hand in hand with a more profound awareness of teleology. the length of the series of purposes depends on the length of the causal series; and on the other hand, the possession of suitable means produces very often not only the realization but also the very idea of a purpose. in order to understand the significance of this interweaving of natural and mental life, one must bear in mind the apparently obvious fact that we can attain more, and more essential, ends with a long series of means containing numerous elements than with a short series. primitive man, who has only a limited knowledge of natural causes, is consequently restricted in his purposive action. for him, the arc of purposive action will contain as intermediate links little more than his own physical action and the direct effect that he can have upon a single object. if the expected effect does not follow from this action, then the appeal to a magical authority, who is expected somehow to produce the desired result, will appear less as a prolongation of the teleological series than as a proof that the end is unattainable. whenever this short series proves inadequate, therefore, the purpose will be abandoned or, more likely, will not be formed at all. the prolongation of the series means that the subject, to an increasing extent, makes the force of the objects themselves work for him. as the most basic needs are satisfied, the more links are needed in the teleological series, and only a very sophisticated knowledge of causation can then succeed in reducing the number of links by discovering more direct connections and shorter paths within the natural order of things. this may lead to a reversal of the natural relationship: in relatively primitive periods, the simple necessities of life are procured by simple series of purposes, while the satisfaction of higher and more differentiated needs require more roundabout methods; but the progress of technology usually provides relatively simple and direct means of production for the latter needs while the provision for the fundamental needs of life encounters growing difficulties which have to be overcome by more complicated means. in short, cultural development tends to prolong the teleological series for what is close to us and to shorten the series for what is remote. here, the very important concept of the tool must enter into our consideration of purposive action. the primary form of the teleological sequence is that in which our action produces reactions in an external object, and these reactions, following a course determined by their own nature, culminate in the desired effects. the use of tools involves interposing another factor between the subject and this object, a factor that occupies an intermediate position not only in terms of space and time but also in terms of its content. for on the one hand a tool is a mere object which is mechanically effective, but on the other hand it is also an object that we not merely operate upon, but operate with, as with our own hands. the tool is an intensified instrument, for its form and existence are predetermined by the end, whereas in the primary teleological process natural objects are only later made to serve our purposes. the person who plants a seed in order to enjoy the fruit of the plant at a later date, instead of being satisfied with wild fruits, acts teleologically, but the purposive action is limited to his hand. if, however, he uses a spade and hoe he removes himself further from the point at which natural processes operate by themselves, and he enhances the subjective factor in relation to the objective factor. by using tools we deliberately add a new link to the chain of purposive action, thus showing that the straight road is not always the shortest. the tool is typical of what we might call our creations in the external world; on the one hand it is formed exclusively by our own powers, and on the other it is devoted entirely to our own purposes. because the tool is not itself an end it lacks the relative independence that the end implies, either as an absolute value or as something that will produce an effect upon us: it is an absolute means. the principle of the tool is not only effective in the physical world. where self-interest is not focused directly upon material production, but mental conditions or nonmaterial events are involved, the tool attains a still more refined form, inasmuch as it is now really the creation of our will and does not have to is compromise with the attributes of a material substance that fundamentally alien to purpose. the most typical instances of this kind of tool are perhaps social institutions, by means of which the individual can attain ends for which his personal abilities would never suffice. membership of a state provides the protection that is a prerequisite for most individual purposive action; but leaving aside this most general aspect, the particular institutions of civil law make possible for the individual achievements that would otherwise be denied to him. in the roundabout legal forms of contract, testament, adoption, etc. , the individual possesses a collectively established tool that multiplies his own powers, extends their effectiveness and secures their ends. it is the same with religious rites, which are tools of the church, serving to objectify the typical emotions of the religious community. they are, no doubt, a digression from the ultimate end of religious sentiment, but a digression by means of a tool which, in contrast to all material tools, serves exclusively those ends that the individual is otherwise unable to attain. here, finally, we reach the point at which money finds its place in the interweaving of purposes. i will begin with some generally accepted facts. all economic transactions rest upon the fact that i want something that someone else owns, and that he will transfer it to me if i give him something i own that he wants. it is obvious that the final link in this twosided process will not always be present when the first link appears; on many occasions i want the object a which a possesses, but the object or service b which i am willing to give in return does not interest a; or else the goods offered are acceptable to both parties but no agreement can be reached about the respective quantities. in the case of money, its character as an instrument is very rarely obscured. by contrast with the other institutions mentioned earlier, money has no inherent relation to the specific purpose the attainment of which it aids. money is totally indifferent to the objects because it is separated from them by the fact of exchange. what money mediates is not the possession of an object but the exchange of objects. money in its perfected forms is an absolute means because, on the one hand, it is completely teleologically determined and is not influenced by any determination from a different series, while on the other hand it is restricted to being a pure means and tool in relation to a given end, has no purpose of its own and functions impartially as an intermediary in the series of purposes. the tool illustrates or incorporates the grandeur of the human will, and at the same time its limitations. the practical necessity to introduce a series of intermediate steps between ourselves and our ends has perhaps given rise to the concept of the past, and so has endowed man with his specific sense of life, of its extent and its limits, as a watershed between past and future. money is the purest reification of means, a concrete instrument which is absolutely identical with its abstract concept; it is a pure instrument. the tremendous importance of money for understanding the basic motives of life lies in the fact that money embodies and sublimates the practical relation of man to the objects of his will, his power and his impotence; one might say, paradoxically, that man is an indirect being. i noted earlier that the representation and provision of means does not always depend upon an already formed purpose; the availability of materials and forces often provokes us to form certain purposes which these means will enable us to attain. once a purpose has engendered the idea of means, the means may produce the conception of a purpose. this relationship, frequently modified but enduring, may be seen in the case of tools, which i characterized as the purest kind of means. while ordinary, simple means are entirely used up in achieving the purpose, a tool continues to exist apart from its particular application and is capable of a variety of other uses that cannot be foreseen. this is true not only for thousands of cases in daily life that need not be exemplified, but also in much more complicated situations. how often are military organizations, which were intended for external deployment, used by a dynasty for internal political ends? of course, the money can be used ultimately only for one of the objects, but the choice that it offers is a bonus which increases its value. since money is not related at all to a specific purpose, it acquires a relation to the totality of purposes. money is the tool that has the greatest possible number of unpredictable uses and so possesses the maximum value attainable in this respect. the mere possibility of unlimited uses that money has, or represents, on account of its lack of any content of its own, is manifested in a positive way by the restlessness of money, by its urge to be used, so to speak. in the last analysis, the whole vast range of commodities can only be exchanged for one value, namely money; but money can be exchanged for any one of the range of commodities. by contrast with labour, which can rarely change its application, and the less easily the more specialized it is, capital in the form of money can almost always be transferred from one use to another, at worst with a loss, but often with a gain. the worker can hardly ever extricate his art and skill from his trade and invest it somewhere else. by comparison with the owner of money he is at a disadvantage so far as free choice is concerned, just as the merchant is. thus, the value of a given amount of money is equal to the value of any object for which it might be exchanged plus the value of free choice between innumerable other objects, and this is an asset that has no analogy in the area of commodities or labour. this surplus value of money appears all the more important if one considers the nature of the decision to which this power of choice leads in reality. it has been asserted that a commodity that is limited in quantity and has alternative uses will be valued by its owners with respect to its most important use; all other uses will appear uneconomic and unreasonable. on the other hand, a supply of goods that is sufficient or more than sufficient for all possible uses, so that the goods compete to be used, will be valued according to its least important use. the most important use becomes the measure of the object if there are competing uses. this is most fully and effectively demonstrated by money. since money can be used for any economic purpose, a given amount of it can be used to satisfy the most important subjective need for the moment. the choice is not limited, as is the case with all other commodities, and, because human desires know no limit, a great variety of possible uses is always competing for any given quantity of money. since the decision will always be in favour of the good that is desired most intensely, money must be valued at any moment as equivalent to the most important interest experienced at that moment. a supply of wood or a building plot that is adequate only for one of several desired uses, and which is therefore valued according to the most valuable of those uses, cannot have a significance beyond the region of things of its own kind. money, however, has no such limitation, and so its value corresponds with the most important universal interest of the individual that can be satisfied with the available supply. other things being equal, that commodity is more valuable which i can but do not have to use immediately. the range of commodities falls into a graduated series of values between two extremes: at one end is the commodity that can be enjoyed later but not now. if, for example, fish caught during the summer is exchanged for furs that are going to be worn in the winter, then the value of the fish is increased by the fact that i can consume it immediately, whereas the value of the furs is affected by the fact that the delay in using them involves the risk of damage, loss or devaluation. on the other hand, the value of the fish is diminished because it will no longer be fresh tomorrow, and the value of the furs is increased because they will still be serviceable at a later date. an object used as a means of exchange is most suitable for money, if it possesses both of these value-enhancing qualities. this may appear paradoxical, since the more intense the desire to possess something or to establish a relationship, the more intense and passionate is the enjoyment of it. it is indeed the anticipated enjoyment that determines the strength of our desire. yet it is just this situation that gives an advantage to the less interested party, for it is in the nature of things that the one who benefits less should be compensated by some concessions from the other party. this is apparent even in the most refined and intimate relations. in every love relationship, the one who is less involved has an advantage, because the other renounces from the very beginning any exploitation of the relationship, is more ready to make sacrifices, and offers a greater measure of devotion in exchange for the greater satisfaction that he derives. money has the very positive quality that is designated by the negative concept of lack of character. the individual whom we regard as a weak character is not directed by the inner worth of persons, things or thoughts, but by the external pressure that is brought to bear upon him. the fact that money is detached from all specific contents and exists only as a quantity earns for money and for those people who are only interested in money the quality of characterlessness. this is the almost logically necessary reverse side of the advantages of finance and of the overvaluation of money in relation to qualitative values. the superiority of money is expressed first in the fact that the seller is more interested and eager than the buyer. a very significant feature of our whole attitude towards objects is involved here; namely, when two opposing classes of values are considered as a whole, the first class may be distinctly superior to the second, while the individual objects or representatives of the second group may be superior to those of the first. faced with a choice between the totality of material goods and the totality of ideal goods, we should probably be obliged to choose the first, because to renounce it would be to negate life, including all its ideal contents; but on the other hand, we might not hesitate to give up any single material good in exchange for an ideal good. in our relations with other people we do not question that one relationship is much more valuable and indispensable than another, when viewed as a whole; but on particular occasions and in particular aspects the less valuable relationship may be more enjoyable and attractive. this leads to a more general phenomenon, which might be termed the surplus value of wealth and which resembles the unearned rent of land. the wealthy man enjoys advantages beyond the enjoyment of what he can buy with his money. the merchant supplies him more reliably and more cheaply than he does poorer people; everyone he meets, whether likely to profit from his wealth or not, is more deferential; he moves in an ideal atmosphere of unquestioned privilege. one can observe everywhere all manner of small privileges being granted to the purchaser of expensive goods and to the first-class traveller; privileges that have as little connection with the objective value as has the friendly smile of the merchant with the more expensive goods that he is selling. these privileges are a gratuitous supplement, and their most painful feature is perhaps that the consumer of cheaper goods, who is denied them, cannot complain that he is being cheated. this can be best illustrated by a very minor instance. the streetcars in some cities have two separate classes which differ in price, although the more expensive class offers no material advantage in the way of greater comfort. what the traveller buys with his first-class ticket is the right to join the exclusive company of those who pay such a higher price in order to be separated from the second-class passengers. thus the well-to-do individual can acquire an advantage simply by spending more money, without necessarily receiving a material equivalent for his expenditure. they convey the impression of an indeterminate power which is not confined to the achievement of a particular result, and this impression is all the stronger the more mobile and more easily available for any purpose the possessions are; that is to say, the more the fortune consists of money or is convertible to money, and the more distinctly money itself has become a tool and a point of transition without any purpose of its own. the pure potentiality of money as a means is distilled in a general conception of power and significance which becomes effective as real power and significance for the owner of money. it is like the attraction of a work of art, which is produced not only by its content and the associated psychological reactions, but by all the accidental, individual and indirect complexes of feeling that it makes possible. only the indeterminate sum of these feelings circumscribes the whole value and significance of a work of art. if this interpretation of the unearned increment of wealth is correct, then the increment will be greater when the circumstances of the owner provide better opportunities and more freedom to use it. a poor man has the fewest opportunities, because his money income is adequate only for the basic needs of life and allows almost no latitude in the choice of uses. this latitude increases with increasing income, and each unit of the growing income becomes more valuable to the extent that it differs from those units that are necessary for the satisfaction of basic and predetermined needs; that is, each additional unit of income includes a larger proportion of unearned increment, though of course this is only the case up to a relatively high level of income, beyond which each unit of income is equal in this respect. here the phenomenon we are considering can be seen in a particular context, and in a way that seems to me especially fruitful. yet far from disproving the other relation, it merely illustrates the essential qualities of money: through its distancing from every specific determination, money is able to take up the threads of internal and external life that run in completely opposite directions and to act as a tool of decisive cultural and representational importance for any one of them. this is the incomparable significance of money for the evolutionary process of the practical mind; it achieves the utmost reduction of the specific qualities and the one-sided character of all empirical forms. what one might term the tragedy of human concept formation lies in the fact that the higher concept, which through its breadth embraces a growing number of details, must count upon increasing loss of content. already in athens, at the very inception of pure monetary transactions in the fourth century, the wealthiest banker, pasion, had started his career as a slave. in turkey the armenians, a despised and often persecuted people, are frequently merchants and moneylenders, as, under similar circumstances, were the moors in spain. in india these circumstances are a frequent occurrence. on the one hand, the socially oppressed and yet cautiously advancing parsee are mostly money-changers or bankers, while on the other hand in some parts of southern india, money business and wealth are in the hands of the chetty, a mixed caste, who, because of imperfect caste purity, have very little prestige. similarly, the huguenots in france, like the quakers in england, applied themselves with the greatest intensity to money acquisition because of their exposed and restricted position. to exclude someone in principle from the acquisition of money is almost impossible because all possible paths constantly lead to it. after the quakers had already attained full political equality, they themselves rejected the interests of others: they did not take an oath and therefore could not accept a public office; they refused everything that was associated with the adornment of life, even sport; they even had to give up farming because they did not want to pay tithe. thus, in order to retain an external life interest, they were directed towards money as the sole interest in life to which they had access. in the same way, it has been pointed out that in the herrenhuter community its members lack all interest in the sciences, the arts and cheerful sociability and that, aside from religious interest, only naked acquisitiveness as a practical impulse remains. the industry and greed of many herrenhuter and pietists was not, therefore, a symptom of hypocrisy but of a degenerate christendom, decaying cultural interests and of a piety that does not tolerate the superior values of this world, but only those associated with the baseness of the world. because money is indeed a mere means, though on an absolute scale, and since money lacks all particularity derived from whatever actual determinations, it is the unconditional terminus a quo to everything, as well as the unconditional terminus ad quem from everywhere. therefore, equivalent circumstances emerge where sections of groups are not excluded from the sequence of purposes, and the identical teleological formation is valid for the whole group. the spartans, to whom the pursuit of any economic interest was strictly forbidden, are reported to have been very greedy. it seems that the passion for possessions, whose distribution had been impractically systematized by the lycian constitution, burst out precisely where ownership possessed the least specific character and where restrictions were least able to be imposed. it has also been mentioned that over a long period in sparta there was no difference between the poor and the wealthy with regard to the practical enjoyment of possessions, and that the wealthy did not live any better than did the poor. personal effects are naturally more practical to cope with, although here too differences exist: in medieval england, for instance, wool was most useful in this respect, since it was a sort of circulating medium used by parliament to grant taxes to the king and used by the king to squeeze money from the merchants. money is the extreme point of this scale. the same specific character of money as lacking in any specific determinacy which made it the most suitable and the least refusable source of income for the jews in their position as pariahs, also made it the most convenient and direct incentive for exploiting them. if, with regard to the medieval pogroms, we are informed that in some cities the persecution was directed against the wealthy while in others against the poor jews, then this is surely no counter-evidence, but is rather the other side to the growing power of money. this calls to mind fashion, which is so often particularly valued and powerful if it is imported. money and fashion are forms of social interaction and it seems that social elements, just like the focusing of our eyes, sometimes converge best on a point that is not too close. the stranger as a person is predominantly interested in money for the same reason that makes money so valuable to the socially deprived: namely, because it provides chances for him that are open to fully entitled persons or to the indigenous people by specific concrete channels and by personal relationships. it has also been emphasized that it was strangers who, in front of the babylonian temple, threw money to the native girls who then prostituted themselves for it. there is another connection between the sociological importance of the stranger and of money. the pure monetary transaction is obviously something secondary; the basic interest in money expresses itself first and foremost in trade. this is emphasized by the fact that it was particularly the jews of the diaspora who followed this profession in large numbers. dispersed peoples, crowded into more or less closed cultural circles, can hardly put down roots or find a free position in production. they are therefore dependent on intermediate trade which is much more elastic than primary production, since the sphere of trade can be expanded almost limitlessly by merely formal combinations and can absorb people from outside whose roots do not lie in the group. the stranger needs a higher risk premium for his enterprises and loans. this connection is not only valid for the jews, but is deeply rooted in the essence of trade and of money and is just as important for a series of other phenomena. i will refer here only to those in modern times. the world stock exchanges of the sixteenth century, lyons and antwerp, gained their distinctive character through strangers on the basis of almost unlimited freedom of trade which the alien merchant enjoyed here. this again is bound up with the money transactions characteristic of these places: a money economy and free trade possess a deep inner relationship, no matter how often it may be obscured by historical accidents and mistaken principles of governments. the role of the stranger in financial transactions illustrates their inter-relationship clearly. the financial importance of some florentine families during the medici period was based on the fact that they were banished by the medici or deprived of their political power. in order to regain strength and importance, they were dependent on financial transactions, since they could not pursue any other business away from home. it is worth observing how, on closer scrutiny, other concurrent but apparently contradictory events reveal the same relationship. when antwerp in the sixteenth century was the undisputed centre of world trade, its importance rested upon the strangers, the italians, spaniards, portuguese, british and germans, who settled there and sold their merchandise. the native people of antwerp played a very restricted role in trading and were employed mainly as commission agents and as bankers in financial business. in this international society unified by the interests of world trade, the native people played the role that is otherwise often played by the stranger. what is decisive here is the sociological relationship between a large group and some estranged individuals. the latter, because they do not have any direct relationship with more concrete interests, turn towards financial transactions. regardless of the private motives of the individual stranger within a group for choosing trade and particularly financial transactions, the first major transactions of modern bankers during the sixteenth century take place abroad. money is emancipated from the local restrictedness of most teleological sequences, because it is the intermediate link from any given starting point to any given final point. and if, as one might put it, every element of historical existence searches for the form of activity in which it can express its specific quality and its genuine strength in its purest form, then the earliest modern substantial capital, like the expanding urge of youthful spirits, presses for investments which most strongly reveal its all-embracing power, its all-embracing usefulness and its impartiality. in the preceding analysis we have presupposed one aspect of the sense of value whose self-evidence can easily obscure its significance for us. money is valuable to us because it is the means for the acquisition of values: but one could just as well say that t it is only the means. for it does not appear to be logically necessary that the emphasis of value that rests on the ultimate ends of our action is transferable 10 the means, which, in themselves and without reference to the teleological sequence, would be completely estranged from value. this value transference on the basis of purely external connections arranges itself in a very general form of our mental processes which one might call the psychological expansion of qualities. if an actual sequence of objects, forces or events contains a link that brings about certain subjective reactions in us, e. g. in brief, wherever a number of people and objects exist as a unit through whatever connection, the sense of value derived from a single element is also transmitted by the common root of the system to the others, which by themselves do not provoke such feelings. precisely because the sense of value has nothing to do with the structure of things but possesses its impassable realm beyond them, valuation does not strictly adhere to its logical boundaries but evolves liberally beyond the objectively justified relations to things. on the other hand, an object is relatively valuable if the sense of its value is thereby conditioned by the realization of an absolute value; the relativity of its value is demonstrated by the fact that the value is lost at the moment when another means for the same end is discovered which is superior and more easily attainable. this contrast between absolute and relative value does not coincide with the contrast between objective and subjective value, since the former may evolve in both of these forms of value. i have used the concepts of value and purpose here as largely identical; in this context, they are in fact only different aspects of one and the same phenomenon: the actual conception which, according to its theoreticalemotive meaning, is a value is a purpose from a practical-volitional point of view. the setting of the goal arises from the character, from the mood and from the interest, but the road is determined by the nature of things. the notion that we are free with regard to the first step but slaves with regard to the second is nowhere more applicable than in the teleological sphere. however, this opposition, which discloses the great variety of relations between our inner forces and objective being, in no way hinders one and the same content from shifting from one category to the other. it is precisely the spontaneity in setting the final purpose, together with the fact that the means psychologically participate in the value of their goal, that enables the means to acquire the quality of a definite autonomous value for itself in our consciousness. further, if this construction is correct, then it follows that, to deal with teleological sequences, only the presence of the original unit of energy, that is the original existence of purpose as such, is required. the substantial force of energy survives in the succeeding action, which remains guided from the outset by the purpose, regardless of whether or not the awareness of purpose accompanies the practical sequence any longer. it is surely obvious that this antedating of the final purpose in its most comprehensive and radical form takes place not in the intermediate instances of life but rather in money. never has an object that owes its value exclusively to its quality as a means, to its convertibility into more into a definite values, so thoroughly and unreservedly developed psychological value absolute, into a completely engrossing final purpose governing our practical consciousness. this ultimate craving for money must increase to the extent that money takes on the quality of a pure means. for this implies that the range of objects made available to money grows continuously, that things submit more and more defencelessly to the power of money, that money itself becomes more and more lacking in quality yet thereby at the same time becomes powerful in relation to the quality of things. its growing importance depends on its being cleansed of everything that is not merely a means, because its clash with the specific characteristics of objects is thereby eliminated. the extent to which money becomes absolute for the consciousness of value depends on the major transformation of economic interest from primitive production to industrial enterprise. modern man and the ancient greek have such different attitudes toward money largely because formerly it served only consumption whereas now it essentially serves production. this difference is of extreme importance for the teleological role of money which is the true index of the economy as a whole. formerly, general economic interest was directed much more towards consumption than to production; agricultural production predominated and its simple and traditional stationary technology did not require as much expenditure of economic consciousness as did constantly changing industry. this consciousness was therefore predominantly focused on the other side of the economy, namely consumption. the development of labour as a whole reflects the same pattern. native peoples work almost exclusively for immediate consumption and not for possessions, which would be the next stage further towards acquisition. all these internal and external moments of life formation interact in such a way that one cannot designate any one of them as the unconditional fundamental one. the character of an agrarian economy is determined, on the one hand, by its reliability, by a small and less variable number of intermediate links, by the emphasis on consumption rather than production, and on the other by an attitude focused on the substance of things, and by an aversion to the unpredictable, the unstable and the dynamic. on the one hand, all these qualities are various broken rays of a unified historical basic formation refracted by the medium of differentiated interests. we cannot directly grasp or name these rays with the dissecting mind; perhaps they belong to those formations to which the question of priority is not applicable, because their essence basically rests upon the interaction of mutual dependence in an infinite process and in a circle that is defective as to the knowledge of the details but essential and unavoidable in its basic motives. the importance of money as the outstanding and most perfect example of the psychological raising of means to ends becomes most apparent when the relationship between means and ends is inspected more closely. i have already mentioned a number of occasions in which we hide the real goals of our actions from ourselves, so that our will is in reality focused on goals other than we ourselves assume. thus, it seems legitimate to search further for purposes beyond those reflected by our consciousness; but where does the limit to our search lie? if the teleological sequence does not terminate in the last consciously conceived link, then does that not open up the way to its continuation to the infinite? is it not then necessary to be dissatisfied with any given purpose on which our action rests, and to search for a further reason for it in a purpose beyond the acknowledged one? in addition, no gain or condition attained grants us the final satisfaction which is logically bound up with the concept of an ultimate purpose. to summarize, it appears as if what we call the ultimate purpose is floating above the teleological sequence, yet stands in the same relation to the horizon as the earthly paths that always lead towards it, yet which, after the longest wanderings, never seem to be any closer than at the outset. the question is not whether the ultimate purpose can be attained, but whether its form of presentation may be given any content. the teleological sequences, to the extent that they are directed towards what can be realized in this world, come to a standstill not with their realization but rather in accordance with their inner structure. instead of the fixed point that each of them seems to have in its ultimate purpose, only the following heuristic regulative principle is offered: namely, that one should not consider any individually willed goal as the final one, but that one should leave the possibility open for a step to a higher purpose. in other words, the ultimate purpose is only a function or a request. viewed as a concept, it is nothing other than the condensation of the fact that at first it seemed to nullify: that the path of human endeavour and valuation leads to infinity and that no points reached on that path can, in retrospect, escape being considered as a mere means, no matter how much it appeared to be definite before it was reached. the elevation of the means to the dignity of an ultimate purpose thereby becomes a much less irrational category. certainly in the individual case, irrationality cannot be eliminated, but the nature of the totality of teleological sequences differs from that of the limited phases. that the means become ends is justified by the fact that, in the last analysis, ends are only means. out of the endless series of possible volitions, self-developing actions and satisfactions, we almost arbitrarily designate one moment as the ultimate end, for which everything preceding it is only a means; whereas an objective observer or later even we ourselves have to posit for the future the genuinely effective and valid purposes without their being secured against a similar fate. at this point of extreme tension between the relativity of our endeavours and the absoluteness of the idea of a final purpose, money again becomes significant and a previous suggestion is developed further. as the expression and equivalent of the value of things, and at the same time as a pure means and an indifferent transitional stage, money symbolizes the established fact that the values for which we strive and which we experience are ultimately revealed to be means and temporary entities. if the character of money as an ultimate purpose oversteps that intensity for an individual in which it is the appropriate expression of the economic culture of his circle, then greed and avarice emerge. i specifically wish to emphasize the dependence of these concepts on the current specific economic conditions, because the same degree of passion in acquiring and holding on to money may be quite normal for the particular importance of money in one context but may belong to the hypertrophied categories in another. generally speaking, the threshold for the beginning of a real greed for money will be relatively high in a developed and lively money economy, but relatively low at primitive economic levels, whereas the reverse is true for avarice. whoever is considered thrifty and reasonable in spending money under restricted circumstances little affected by the money economy will appear to be avaricious under conditions of a quick turnover and easy money. furthermore, it can be of an altruistic nature: the love of god, the surrender of our heart, may make us obey his commandments, just as we fulfil the wishes of a person we love because their joy and satisfaction is our greatest concern. finally, we can be motivated by a feeling for the objective value of a world order in which the will of the highest principle continues uninterrupted in the will of all individual elements; the objective relation between god and ourselves can demand of us this obedience as its adequate expression or its inner necessary consequence, without any consequences for ourselves and without the joy and contentment of god entering this motivation. in many cases, then, the consciousness of purpose stops short of objective reality, and does not borrow its value primarily from leave every psychological and epistemological interpretation of this impersonal motivation undecided here. it is, in any case, a psychological fact which only enters into a variety of combinations with the sequence of purposes of a personal nature. the collector who shuts away his valuables from everyone else and who does not even enjoy them himself, yet watches most jealously over them, colours his egoism with an admixture of supra-subjective valuation. generally speaking, it is the function of possessions to be enjoyed and we may contrast this not only with those objects that one enjoys without wanting to own them, like the stars, but also those whose value is independent of all subjective enjoyment like the beauty, order and significance of the universe, whose value persists independent of human response. in the case of such possessive people, there exists an intermediate or mixed phenomenon: possession is certainly necessary, yet it does not extend to its regular subjective consequences but is experienced as a worthwhile and valuable goal without them. landed property thus possesses and grants a certain dignity which distinguishes it from all other types of possession, even if their resultant utility is equal or greater for the owner. this accounts for the fact that it has often been preserved by sacrifices that are only made in a similar way for an objective ideal. an element of absolute value is therefore hidden in the significance of landed property; it is, or at least it was, connected with the idea that it is valuable to be a landowner even if this value is not expressed in terms of utility. the commitment to landed property may thus possess religious overtones as, for example, at the high point of greek civilization. at that time, to sell landed property was an offence not only against the children, but also against the ancestors, because it disrupted the continuity of the family. the fact that the supply of land could not easily be increased favoured its function as the symbol of family unity which transcended individuals and was sacrosanct. this development of goods into a final purpose whose absolute value extends beyond that of the mere enjoyment of their benefits is found represented most clearly and decisively in avarice and greed, those pathological deformations of the interest in money which increasingly tend to draw in the other cases of the same type. money that has become an ultimate purpose does not tolerate the co-ordinated definite values even of those goods that are of a non-economic nature. money is not content with being just another final purpose of life alongside wisdom and art, personal significance and strength, beauty and love; but in so far as money does adopt this position it gains the power to reduce the other purposes to the level of means. this reorganization is all the more valid for actual economic goods. to insist on keeping them as if they were incomparable values must appear stupid as long as one can get them back for money at any time, and above all as long as the precise expressibility of their monetary value has robbed them of their existing individual significance and their significance outside the purely indifferent economy. the abstract character of money, its remoteness from any specific enjoyment in and for itself, supports an objective delight in money, in the awareness of a value that extends far beyond all individual and personal enjoyment of its benefits. if money is no longer a purpose, in the sense in which any other tool has a purpose in terms of its useful application, but is rather a final purpose to those greedy for money, then it is furthermore not even a final purpose in the sense of an enjoyment. instead, for the miser, money is kept outside of this personal sphere which is taboo to him. to him, money is an object of timid respect. the miser loves money as one loves a highly admired person who makes us happy simply by his existence and by our knowing him and being with him, without our relation to him as an individual taking the form of concrete enjoyment. in so far as, from the outset, the miser consciously forgoes the use of money as a means towards any specific enjoyment, he places money at an unbridgeable distance from his subjectivity, a distance that he nevertheless constantly attempts to overcome through the awareness of his ownership. the certainty of satisfaction is further enhanced by the particular relationship between wish and fulfilment which money assumes in contrast to other objects of our interest. the subjective consequences of a fulfilled wish are not always the exact complement of the state of deprivation that originally brought about the wish. the desire for an object is not like a hole that is filled by the possession so that everything remains as it was before the wish. this is the way schopenhauer presents it, since to him every satisfaction is only something negative, the elimination of a painful condition of deprivation. but if one accepts that satisfaction is something positive, then our wish fulfilment is not only the elimination of a negative state by a corresponding positive one, enhanced by a feeling of happiness; rather, the relation of the wish to its fulfilment is an infinitely diverse one, because the wish almost never allows for all aspects of the object and its effect upon us. reality almost never corresponds to the wish as a category of possibility of wanting to possess. the trivial wisdom that the possession of something we wanted usually disappoints us is, for better or worse, correct and we become conscious of this otherness in possession only as a fact unaccompanied by any feelings. however, money takes on an exceptional position in this respect. on the one hand, it pushes to its limit any incommensurability between the wish and its object. any endeavour that has been focused on money only finds in it something completely indeterminate, something that cannot satisfy a reasonable demand and to which we have no specific relation because it has no substance. if our wish does not extend beyond money towards a concrete goal, then a deadly disappointment must follow. such a disappointment will always be experienced where monetary wealth, which has been passionately desired and considered an unquestionable happiness, reveals what it really is after it has been acquired: money is merely a means, whose elevation to an ultimate purpose cannot survive after it has been acquired. whereas here the greatest discrepancy between wish and fulfilment exists, the exact reverse takes place if the psychological character of money as a final purpose has become permanently solidified and greed, too, has become a chronic condition. in this case, where the desired object is supposed to grant nothing but its possession, and where this limitation of desire is not only a passing self-deception, every disappointment is dropped. all objects that we want to possess are expected to achieve something for us once we own them. the often tragic, often humorous incommensurability between wish and fulfilment is due to the inadequate anticipation of this achievement of which i have just spoken. but money is not expected to achieve anything for the greedy person over and above its mere ownership. we know more about money than about any other object because there is nothing to be known about money and so it cannot hide anything from us. it is a thing absolutely lacking in qualities and therefore cannot, as can even the most pitiful object, conceal within itself any surprises or disappointments. whoever really and definitely only wants money is absolutely safe from such experiences. the general human weakness to rate what is longed for differently compared with what is attained reaches its apogee in greed for money because such greed only fulfils consciousness of purpose in an illusory and untenable fashion; on the other hand, this weakness is completely removed as soon as the will is really completely satisfied by the ownership of money. if we desire to arrange human destiny according to the scheme of relationship between the wish and its object, then we must concede that, in terms of the final point in the sequence of purposes, money is the most inadequate but also the most adequate object of our endeavours. actually the object consumed is not the same as the intended object, but another which lacks the quality of motivation. the only possible motive for consuming it is at least to find an equivalent for the expenditure. money has thus arrived at its next purpose; and with it a feeling of satisfaction and a peak in the teleological sequence is reached, aside from the failure of its subjective final purpose as a thing for itself which does not diminish that satisfaction. this trivial and basically uninteresting phenomenon reveals a very peculiar teleological constellation of money value. although it is usually not in evidence in valuable objects and therefore appears to be bourgeois and insignificant, it is perhaps the most extreme expression of the role of money as an intermediary overgrowing the real final purpose. not only is the genuine sense of economizing eliminated here as it is in avarice, but also the attraction of power and of the possibilities that enrich the idle possession of money are eliminated. the object, which has lost whatever might have been the meaning and purpose of its consumption, is consumed under conditions of discomfort and harmfulness merely because the money spent has bestowed an absolute value upon it. not only is the purposive process arrested here by money but, in addition, it becomes retrogressive and perverse in so far as the valuation, which is purposive in itself, is realized by a procedure directly lacking in purpose. the only type of squanderer in the money economy who is significant for the philosophy of money is not a person who senselessly gives away money in natura, but rather one who uses it for nonsensical purchases that are unsuited to his circumstances. the pleasure associated with squandering is attached to the moment of spending money upon any object whatsoever, and has to be distinguished from the pleasure provided by the fleeting enjoyment of objects, from the snobbery to which it is related, from the stimulating change between acquisition and use of objects; rather it relates to the pure function of squandering without regard for its substantial content and attendant circumstances. this is the basis for the essence of greed and squandering, since they both reject in principle the measurement of value that alone can secure a limit and a boundary to the sequence of purposes, namely by the final enjoyment of objects. the genuine spendthrift should not be mistaken for an epicurean or somebody who is merely frivolous, although all these elements are mixed up in the individual representative. the spendthrift is indifferent towards the object once he possesses it; his enjoyment is doomed never to find repose and permanency; the moment of his possession of an object coincides with the negation of its enjoyment. in this respect, life has the same demonic form as for the avaricious: every goal attained arouses a thirst for more which can never be satisfied, for this whole tendency searches for satisfaction, as it flows out of an ultimate purpose, within a category that denies any purpose from the outset and limits itself to the means and to the penultimate moment. the miserly person is the more abstract of the two. his consciousness of purpose halts at an even greater distance from the final purpose, whereas the spendthrift comes closer to the objects since his movement towards a rational goal stops at a later stage in order to annex it, as if it were the final goal itself. on the one hand, this formal identity of the complete opposition of visible results, and, on the other the lack of a regulating concrete purpose which, with reference to the equal senselessness of both tendencies, suggests an uncertain interplay between them, explains the fact that avarice and extravagance are therefore often to be found in the same person, be it in their distribution over different spheres of interests or in connection with changing moods. contraction and expansion of these moods is expressed in avarice and squandering as if, each time, the impulse were the same and merely its valency differed. the supply of luxuries will never exceed the demand for them. for example, precious metals, in so far as they are the materials for jewelry, have an unlimited number of uses. this is the result of their basic superfluousness. the closer values stand to our basic life and the more they are conditions of bare survival the stronger, but also the more limited as to quantity, is the direct demand and the more likely it is that the point of satiety is reached at an earlier stage. on the other hand, the more removed values are from primary needs, the less is their demand measured in terms of a natural need and the more they continue to exist relatively unchanged with regard to their available quantity. yet money, unlike a precious metal used for jewelry, does not need to balance the unlimited desire for it by a growing distance from direct needs, because it has become the correlate of the most basic needs of life as well. this remarkable dual character of money with reference to desire for it is presented in a detached form by avarice and extravagance, since in both instances money has dissolved into pure desire for it. both exhibit the negative side of what we have also observed as a positive side to money, namely that money enlarges the diameter of the circle in which our antagonistic psychic drives flourish. what avarice exhibits, as it were, in material paralysis, extravagance reveals in the form of fluidity and expansion. poverty, like avarice and greed, appears in its purest and specific form only at a certain stage of the money economy. in natural conditions which are not yet regulated by a money economy, and as long as agricultural products do not circulate merely as commodities, that is as money values, the total destitution of an individual is less common. even in recent times, russia prided herself on there being no personal poverty in those areas less affected by a money economy. as a general phenomenon, this may be attributed not only to the easier availability of what is absolutely necessary without having to depend upon money, but also to the fact that humane and sympathetic feelings towards poverty are more easily aroused in these circumstances than where what the poor lack and what one can help them with is not what is most immediately necessary to them. in purely monetary relationships, sympathetic feelings have to make a detour before they reach the point of their genuine interest. they often flag during this detour. whenever the salvation of the soul is conceived as the final purpose, poverty is at the same time interpreted in many doctrines as a positive and indispensable means which rises above this position to the dignity of a value that is important and valid in itself. this may happen at different stages in the sequence of purposes and for different reasons. in the first place, the mere indifference towards all worldly enjoyments and interests may lead to it. this burden is removed from the aspiring soul as from itself without requiring a will which is specifically directed towards it. the first christians may frequently have behaved in this way, that is, not directly antagonistic and aggressive towards tangible goods, but simply lacking any relation to them, just as to things that we cannot perceive because we lack the necessary organ. therefore, the sporadic communism of early christianity is fundamentally opposed to the attempts at modern communism since the former originates from indifference towards worldly goods, the latter from the greatest evaluation of them. therefore, where in principle only indifference to everything external predominates, this, in contrast with money, will easily transform itself into real hatred. second, the tempting character of money has an even more distinctive effect upon it. because it is ready to be used at any moment, it is the worst snare of a moment of weakness, and since it serves all activities, it offers the soul its most tempting aspect at that time. all this is of even greater danger since money, as long as it really exists merely as money in our hands, is the most indifferent and innocent thing in the world. but for ascetic modes of sensibility it becomes the real symbol of the devil who seduces us under the mask of innocence and simplicity, so that the only safeguard against both the devil and money is to keep them at a distance and reject any relation to them, no matter how innocent it may appear to be. therefore their acquisition by money, which equalizes procurement and does not reserve specific methods for any object, makes the objects necessarily more indifferent. this is all the more the case where more and more objects are encompassed by wealth and their value differences are actually reduced. as long as we are not yet in a position to buy things, they affect us with their particular distinctive charms. yet as soon as we easily acquire them with our money, those charms fade away, not only because we now own and enjoy them, but also because we acquired them by an indifferent method which effaces their specific value. this influence is, of course, almost unnoticeable in individual cases. i have mentioned before that greed and avarice, although they appear in most cases in unison, must none the less be precisely distinguished both conceptually as well as psychologically. there are, in fact, phenomena that illustrate them separately. the speed on the route towards money is often completely independent of the speed on the route away from money, not only with reference to greed and avarice in the narrow sense, but already on those levels on which the inner movements have not yet overstepped the boundary of the normal. this is largely brought about by that illegitimate elevation of money in the series of ends which, because it contains no objective standards, often changes the significance of the series, so that money, as long as it can still be gained, arouses different value sentiments than when it is considered for the purpose of spending upon further objects. the discrepancy between value sentiment and money on the path towards money declines once it has been obtained. this discrepancy is also expressed by the observation that, as consumers, most people do not economize as carefully as they do in business. perhaps a regulation in ancient jewish law has its origin in this experience that we are more strict, more exact and less careless in acquiring than in spending money. according to this law, the oath always had to be taken by the defendant in cases of disputes concerning money. only the grocer was occasionally allowed, according to one passage of the talmud, to swear on the entry in his account book. under certain circumstances, the change in contraction and remission of the valuation of money emerges from the attitude of princes who, like louis xi and many others, were very severe in collecting their revenues but very liberal in spending them. however, generally speaking, one cannot deny a proportionate relationship between the speed of acquisition and the speed of expenditure. nobody spends money more light-heartedly and frivolously than the gambler, the gold-digger and the demi-monde. i have emphasized this turning point between the two sections of the teleological series because it reveals a most essential quality of money. as long as money serves in our consciousness as the only and closest goal of our endeavours it still possesses a quality. we would be hard pressed to formulate what kind of quality it is, but the interestedness of the will, the concentration of thoughts on it, the liveliness of the attached hopes and emotions shine on it with a warmth that lends it a colourful glow and renders the concept of money significant regardless of its amount. all our practical wishes develop in this way. as long as they stand before us unachieved, the whole genera attracts us, so that we often labour under the illusion that the smallest amount of it, inasmuch as it represents only this object and this concept, would satisfy us permanently. our desire is concentrated on the qualitative character of the object and the interest in quantity usually asserts itself only after the quality has been realized and experienced to a certain extent. this typical evolution of our interests takes possession of money in a specifically modified form. since money is nothing but the indifferent means for concrete and infinitely varied purposes, its quantity is its only important determination as far as we are concerned. with reference to money, we do not ask what and how, but how much. this quality or lack of quality of money first emerges in all its psychological purity, however, only after it has been acquired. only when money is transformed into positive values does it become evident that the quantity exclusively determines the importance of money, namely its power as a means. in the first place, the quantitative differences of money ownership imply the most considerable qualitative differences for the owner. this is such a trivial fact of experience that to emphasize it would seem meaningless, were it not for the constant temptation to reverse the interpretation of the purely quantitative character of money and to conceive its importance and its effectiveness mechanically, that is to conceive of the more important as the multiplication of the less important. i wish first to mention a quite superficial case as proof of how drastically quantitative differences in the concentrations of money intervene in its qualitative consequences. the issue of small-denomination bank notes has a character totally different from the issue of large ones. people with a small income, who are usually the owners of small notes, cannot as easily present them for redemption as the owners of large notes can. on the other hand, if a panic breaks out, the former press for redemption more violently and thoughtlessly or give the notes away at any price. the amount below this limit should, rationally, not be risked, even where a large sum might be gained with a very low probability of loss. the objective factors which otherwise determine the reasonableness of risk are totally irrelevant here. the money form of values easily tempts one to misjudge this economic dictate because it subdivides values into very small portions and so tempts the person with slender means to take a risk that, in principle, he ought to avoid. this has been typified, for example, in the gold shares to the value of one pound, which were issued by mining companies in the transvaal and western australia. in view of their relatively low value and the very high chance of gain, this share has been bought by people who normally have nothing to do with stock exchange speculations. a similar state of affairs is created in the italian lottery. this situation also illustrates how money takes on a completely different qualitative character through mere differences in quantity and how it subjects monetary matters to qualitatively different forms. the completely external and, indeed, even the inner importance of a sum of money is different, depending on whether it lies below or above any dividing line. whether it does lie above or below this line depends solely upon the total assets of the owner. changes in the quantity of money produce totally new qualities. finally, all this fits into a very general form of the behaviour of things, the most striking instance of which can be found in the sphere of psychology. a quantitative increase in phenomena that are operating as causes does not always call forth a proportionate increase in their consequences. rather, the augmentation of a cause that resulted in a definite augmentation of the consequence cannot be sufficient for the same purpose on a higher stage of the scale; a much greater influence will be required in order to attain even the same effect. i remind you of the frequent phenomenon whereby the working capital that produces a definite return in a newly developed area of acquisition has later to be expanded considerably in order to continue to yield the same return. it is an everyday experience of major and typical importance that almost all pleasureaffording stimuli can, after an original increase in pleasurable sensation, lead to its arrest and even to positive pain. finally, the incommensurability of objective causal stimuli and the subjective sensation evoked is also illustrated in the following way. very low economic values, which are values none the less, often do not incite us to behaviour that would otherwise correspond to economic values as such. there are objects of money value, such as stamps, whose money value is not at all taken into account and does not operate as a factor in dealing with these objects. we expect replies to inquiries from far-off people of whom we would or could not demand a penny, and who themselves have no interest in the issue. if the recipient of the letter is of equal social status, we would not dare to enclose a stamp for the reply. for instance, certain colours or combinations of colours may be visible in all their clarity, and yet they do not incite an aesthetic pleasure if the space which they cover does not have considerable dimensions; prior to that, they are simple entities which certainly overstep the threshold of sensory awareness but not that of aesthetic awareness. there is also a threshold of historical awareness which creates the remarkable disproportion between personal energies and their historical consequences. there have been many indian ascetics who taught a similar doctrine to gotama, but only he became buddha; there were certainly many jewish teachers whose sermons did not differ much from those of jesus, but only he has influenced world history. this phenomenon can be seen everywhere. the importance of personalities forms a continuous scale, but there is a point above which the historical significance of a personality commences, whereas those who remain below this threshold of significance have not merely a lesser effect but none at all and they sink into oblivion. at a higher level, perhaps, lies the threshold of philosophical consciousness. the fact that the threshold of awareness for different pleasure and pain sensations have totally different levels here leads to complications that defy any analysis. recent research in physiology has demonstrated the enormous difference in sensitivity to pain between the nerves of various parts of the body; for some, the threshold is six hundred times higher than for others, and it is characteristic that even the threshold value of sensitivity to pressure on the same place possesses no constant relation to them. a comparison of the threshold value for different higher and non-sensory feelings is very dubious because the factors that give rise to them are completely heterogeneous and cannot be quantitatively compared in the same manner as mechanical or electric stimuli of sensory nerves. all relations based on these other life-contents have some sort of stability because of the relative constancy with which they belong to the person. they resist the influence of elements of change which can take effect only after considerable growth. money, however, lacking any quality and lacking any relation to a qualitatively determined personality as such, moves from one personality to the other without any internal resistance, so that the relations and situations that pertain to it can easily and adequately adjust to any change. or, to formulate the problem in terms of our present interest, the fact that money can be accumulated, which reflects the mere quantitative character most clearly, means that it will most frequently and distinctly make itself felt on the determinate content of life. the threshold phenomena, so frequently associated with money, explain its basic character, part of which is also the unearned increment. indeed, this is only one of the phenomena characterized in this way. the contribution of this fact to our knowledge can perhaps be made clearer if we refer to a proposition in marginal utility theory. every unit of quantity of a supply of goods has the value of that unit which is valued least, that is, which is used for the most inessential purpose. for if any unit were lost, the remainder would naturally be used for all more important needs and only the least important would remain unsatisfied. thus, whichever unit would have to be foregone would be the least important. the value of a supply of goods is therefore determined not by the uses to which the goods might be put, that is not by the sum of the very diverse uses of individual units, but by the use of the least useful unit, multiplied by the number of units of the same size. one exception to this theory is generally admitted, and that is in the case where a sum of goods forms a unity and as such provides a certain utility effect which is not the same as the sum of uses of its individual parts. for instance, the existence of a forest, so we are given to believe, has an influence on the climate and weather, and therewith also on soil fertility, the health of the population and the stability of part of the national wealth, etc. in short, the forest as a whole has a value which would remain totally outside our calculations if we were to estimate the utility of individual trees. similarly, the value of an army cannot be judged according to the marginal utility of the individual soldier, nor can the value of a river be judged according to the marginal utility of a single drop of water. this distinction is also valid for the assets owned by an individual. not only does one million marks in the possession of a single individual accord him a status and a social qualification that is totally different from the thousandfold multiple of its corresponding significance to the owner of one thousand marks. rather, at the basis of this subjective consequence, it is also true that the objective economic value of one million marks cannot be calculated in terms of the marginal utility of its thousand parts at a thousand marks each. on the contrary, it forms a comprehensive unit in the same way as the value of a living creature, acting, as a unit, differs from the sum total of its individual organs. in the previous chapter i argued that the money price of an object, no matter how many coins it consists of, is none the less a unit. i stated there that one million marks are, as such, a mere aggregate composed of unconnected units. but the universal formlessness of money as money is certainly the root of the antagonism between an aesthetic tendency and money interests. aesthetic interests are so much focused on pure form that, for instance, design was considered to be the primary aesthetic value of all fine arts, because as pure form it can be realized unchanged in any amount of material. this is now known to be an error; indeed, we must go further and admit that the absolute size of a form of art considerably influences its aesthetic significance, and that this significance is readily modified by the very smallest change of dimensions even if the form remains the same. nevertheless, the aesthetic value of things remains attached to their form, for example to the relation between its elements, although we now know that the character and the effect of this form is essentially co-determined by the amount of its realization. perhaps it is no coincidence that a great many proverbs, but only a few of the innumerable folk songs, appear to deal with money despite its predominant importance. no repetition that did not add anything to their content could enlarge this meaning. in brief, the concentration of our evaluations on form brings about an indifference towards its quantitative moments, whereas it is precisely its formlessness that points towards its decisiveness for value. despite the fact that the relationship between lower and higher kinds of money is well established, certain valuable objects such as boats or houses cannot be paid for with an equivalent amount of many pieces of money with a low denomination, but have to be paid for by a specific kind of money which stands high in rank order of types of money. this same restriction to money of a specific quality is also to be found in the purchase of women and cannot be replaced by a larger quantity of other kinds of money. the reverse is also true: in some places gold is never used to pay for large quantities of goods of small value, but is used exclusively to buy particularly expensive things. this group of phenomena does not correspond to the regulation of our gold standard in which payments above a certain level can be asked for in gold whereas other metals have to be accepted for smaller amounts. within the historical-psychological sphere, money by its very nature becomes the most perfect representative of a cognitive tendency in modern science as a whole: the reduction of qualitative determinations to quantitative ones. this reminds us of the oscillations of indifferent media which are the objective cause of our senses of colour and sound. purely quantitative differences in oscillations determine whether we perceive such qualitative differences as green or violet, or hear the contra a or the high c. within the objective reality that affects our consciousness casually and incoherently only by fragments, everything is arranged by amount and number, and the qualitative differences in our subjective reactions correspond quantitatively to their actual counterparts. perhaps all the infinite diversity of substances, which becomes evident in their chemical relations, are only different oscillations of one and the same basic material. wherever mathematical science penetrates certain given materials, constellations and causes of motion, it tends to express structures and developments by purely quantitative formula. where any prominence and qualitative incomparability of an individual still prevails, this is interpreted as an unusually lucky inheritance, that is as an event that includes and expresses a large quantity of accumulated energies and achievements of the human species. indeed, even within a wholly individualistic ethic this democratic tendency is powerful and is elevated to a world view, while at the same time the inner nature of the soul is deprecated. this corresponds to the belief that the highest values are embedded in everyday existence and in each of its moments, but not in a heroic attitude or in catastrophes or outstanding deeds and experiences, which always have something arbitrary and superficial about them. we may all experience great passions and unheard-of flights of fancy, yet their final value depends on what they mean for those quiet, nameless and equable hours when alone the real and total self lives. finally, despite all appearances to the contrary and all justified criticism, modern times as a whole are characterized throughout by a trend towards empiricism and hence display their innermost relationship to modern democracy in terms of form and sentiment. empiricism replaces the single visionary or rational idea with the highest possible number of observations; it substitutes their qualitative character by the quantity of assembled individual cases. psychological sensualism, which considers the most sublime and abstract forms and faculties of our reasons to be the mere accumulation and intensification of the most ordinary sensual elements, corresponds to this methodological intention. the interest in how much, although it has a given real meaning only in connection with what and how and by itself is only an abstraction, belongs to the basis of our intellectual makeup, and is the envelope that contains the note on our interest in qualities. although only both types of interests together provide a texture, the exclusive emphasis upon one of them, even though it cannot logically be justified, is certainly psychologically one of the major factors of differentiation between periods, individuals and mental provinces. what separates nietzsche from all socialist evaluations is most distinctly characterized by the fact that, for him, only the quality of mankind has any significance, so that a single highest example determines the value of an era, whereas for socialism only the degree of diffusion of desirable conditions and values is relevant. the examples mentioned above of the modern quantitative tendency clearly indicate two different types. firstly, the objective substances and events, which are the basis for the qualitatively different subjective conceptions, are, for their part, only quantitatively different. secondly, the mere accumulation of elements and forces produces subjective phenomena whose character differs both specifically and according to value standpoints from those that are quantitatively conditioned. in both directions, money is the example, expression or symbol of the modern emphasis on the quantitative moment. the fact that more and more things are available for money and, bound up with this, the fact that money becomes the central and absolute value, results in objects being valued only to the extent to which they cost money and the quality of value with which we perceive them appearing only as a function of their money price. their high or low money price has two consequences. if the serf only produces what is sufficient for his payment to the lord of the manor, then the latter has no interest in the total yield. but this is most important in the case of the aliquot payment, where supervision, coercive measures and oppression are the consequences. the fixing of payments with regard to an absolute rather than to a relative quantity is in itself a transitional phenomenon which suggests that it will be replaced by money. in principle, at this level as a whole, the complete freedom and release of the personality as such from the relationship of obligation could, in fact, be realized, for the person entitled to some service is concerned only with receiving a given objective payment, regardless of where the obligated person procures it. but in view of the economic organization it can actually only be procured by the latter through his own labour, and it is upon this basis that the relationship is constructed. for this reason, it has been regarded, to some extent, as a magna charta of personal freedom in the domain of civil law. classical roman law declared that, if a payment in kind were refused, then any demand for payment could be met with money. this is, therefore, the right to buy oneself out of a personal obligation by means of money. the lord of the manor who can demand a quantity of beer or poultry or honey from a serf thereby determines the activity of the latter in a certain direction. but the moment he imposes merely a money levy the peasant is free, in so far as he can decide whether to keep bees or cattle or anything else. formally, in the sphere of personal labour services, the same process takes place with the right of appointing another person as a substitute, and the other party has to accept the latter unless his competence is in doubt. the first step towards an objectification and depersonalization of this obligation occurs when it is strictly defined. consequently, we can find, even at an early date, an exact specification of how many knights and servants have to be accommodated, how many horses and dogs can accompany them and how much bread, wine, fish, dishes, tablecloths, etc. , must be provided. nevertheless, the moment that accommodation and feeding were actually required, on the one hand the limits to the services provided must easily have become vague and, on the other, such services definitely reflected the character of a personal relationship. in contrast, we are dealing with a more developed stage when we find that mere deliveries of payments in kind took place without any accommodation. in such cases, the measurement of the quantity could be much more precise than if people had to be accommodated and their appetites satisfied. schopenhauer is inclined to assume that the amount of suffering and joy that each individual experiences is predetermined by his essential nature, that this amount can neither be exceeded nor remain void, and that all extraneous circumstances to which we are accustomed to ascribe our situation only represent a difference in the form in which we experience that unchangeable amount of happiness and sorrow. if one extends this individualistic conception to mankind as a whole, then it appears as if all our striving for happiness, all evolution of material conditions, all the struggle for possessions and being is a mere shifting back and forth of values whose total amount cannot be changed in this way. as a result, all changes in distribution merely reflect the basic phenomenon that one person now owns what the other, voluntarily or not, has given away. this conservation of values obviously corresponds to a pessimistic-quietistic view of life; for the less we consider ourselves able to produce really new values, the more important it is that none are really lost. there are two types of means for transferring this situation into a more perfect one. the nearest at hand is the diversion of the struggle against fellow men towards the struggle against nature. to the extent to which further substances and forces are incorporated into human uses from the available supply of nature, competition for those that are already obtained will be reduced. the thesis of the preservation of material and energy is, luckily, valid only for the absolute total of nature, but not for that section of it which human purposive action designates. this relative total can, indeed, be multiplied indefinitely by bringing more material and forces into a form that accords with our purposes, that is by annexing them. a progressive technology teaches us to gain even more uses for things, even from what is already completely occupied. it is surely of deep significance that whatever separates man on the purely factual and psychological level from lower animal species, namely the capacity for objective contemplation, the disregard of the ego with its impulses and conditions in favour of pure objectivity, contributes to the noblest and most ennobling result in the historical process: to build a world that may be acquired without conflict and mutual repression, to possess values whose acquisition and enjoyment by one person does not exclude that of another, but opens the door a thousand times for him to acquire such values as well. this problem, which is successfully solved in the world of objectivity in a substantial form, comes close to a solution in a functional form. in the case of the exchange of services or benefits against money, however, one party receives the object that they especially need while the other receives something that anyone in general desires. because of its boundless usefulness and therefore its permanent desirability, every exchange becomes, at least in principle, equally advantageous to both parties. the one who takes the object will certainly do so only if he needs it at this point in time; the person who takes money will accept it because he can use it at any time. exchange against money makes possible an increase in satisfaction for both parties, whereas with exchange in kind it is frequently the case that only one party will have a specific interest in the acquisition or disposal of the object. thus exchange against money is so far the most perfect form of solution of the great cultural problem that evolves from the one-sided advantage of exchange of possessions, namely, to raise the objectively given amount of value to a greater amount of subjectively experienced values merely through the change in its owners. this, alongside the original creation of values, is clearly the task of social expediency as part of the general human task: to set free a maximum of the latent value that lies in the form that we give to the contents of life. wherever we see money serving this purpose, the technical role of money also reveals that exchange is the essential social mode of solving this problem and that exchange itself is embodied in money. one can at least say, with regard to the sum total of money owned by a group, that the inequality and change in its distribution is only a change in form that leaves its significance for the whole unchanged. this very change in form produces in this material the most fundamentally diverse results for the economy and for wealth as totalities. it is, furthermore, not merely a question of quantitative differences but rather of differences in quality that on the one hand are absolutely basic to our problem at hand, and on the other also lead back to the question of quantity. in general, the same commodity in different hands implies, economically, only a quantitative difference in the money return, whereas the same amount of money in different hands signifies a qualitative difference in its objective effects. the social expediency that is undoubtedly at work here explains why modern wealth tends to remain for much shorter periods of time in any one family than was formerly the case in non-money economies. money, so to speak, seeks out the more profitable hand, and this is all the more conspicuous and must result from all the more compelling reasons because the ownership of money may be enjoyed more tranquilly, safely and passively than any other form of property. since money, by virtue of its mere distribution at a given moment, displays a minimum as well as a maximum of economic profitability, and, further, since change in the ownership of money does not bring about as much loss through clashes and loss of time as do other objects, economic usefulness here possesses a particularly wide scope for its task of attaining a maximum of its total importance by means of the type of distribution of ownership. the more the activity and life of people becomes dependent upon objective conditions by virtue of a complicated technology, the greater necessarily is the dependence upon more and more people. however, these people gain their significance for the individual concerned solely as representatives of those functions, such as owners of capital and suppliers of working materials. what kind of people they are in other respects plays no role here. for each of them may be combined with any other quality, even with mutually incompatible elements, and may still be found in the make-up of an unlimited variety of personalities. only the combination and fusion of several traits in one focal point forms a personality which then in its turn imparts to each individual trait a personalsubjective quality. it is not that it is this or that trait that makes a unique personality of man, but that he is this and that trait. the enigmatic unity of the soul cannot be grasped by the cognitive process directly, but only when it is broken down into a multitude of strands, the resynthesis of which signifies the unique personality. both phenomena have the same root and form the opposing sides of one and the same process: the modern division of labour permits the number of dependencies to increase just as it causes personalities to disappear behind their functions, because only one side of them operates, at the expense of all those others whose composition would make up a personality. the form of social life that would evolve were this tendency to be completely realized would exhibit a profound affinity to socialism, at least to an extreme state socialism. thus, the forms of human activity would stand far above the full psychological reality of man, like the realm of platonic ideas above the real world. traces of such formations do frequently exist: often a function in the division of labour confronts its holders as an independent imaginary formation so that they, no longer individually differentiated, simply pass through this function without being able or allowed to put their whole personality into these rigidly circumscribed individual demands. the personality as a mere holder of a function or position is just as irrelevant as that of a guest in a hotel room. in such a social formation, taken to its logical conclusion, the individual would be infinitely dependent; the onesided determination of his performance would make him dependent upon supplementation by the action of all others and the satisfaction of needs would result not so much from the specific abilities of the individual but rather from an organization of work which confronted him externally and which was conceived in accordance with a completely objective standpoint. while at an earlier stage man paid for the smaller number of his dependencies with the narrowness of personal relations, often with their personal irreplaceability, we are compensated for the great quantity of our dependencies by the indifference towards the respective persons and by our liberty to change them at will. and even though we are much more dependent on the whole of society through the complexity of our needs on the one hand, and the specialization of our abilities on the other, than are primitive people who could make their way through life with their very narrow isolated group, we are remarkably independent of every specific member of this society, because his significance for us has been transferred to the one-sided objectivity of his contribution, which can be just as easily produced by any number of other people with different personalities with whom we are connected only by an interest that can be completely expressed in money terms. this reflects an incomparably higher measure of independence for the vassal compared with the serf, even though their obligations, considered by themselves, would have been the same. it is not the bond as such, but being bound to a particular individual master that represents the real antipode of freedom. even the modern status of domestic servants is characterized by the fact that employers can choose by references and personal recommendations, whereas the servant has neither the chance nor the criteria for making similar choices. only in most recent times has the scarcity of domestic servants in large cities occasionally provided the possibility of turning down a position for imponderable reasons. both sides consider this a major step towards the independence of servants, even though the actual demands of the job are no less heavy than they previously were. if we consider the same form of relationship in an altogether different area, we can say that if an anabaptist sect justifies polygamy and the frequent change of wives on the grounds that this destroys the inner dependency or the female role then this is merely the caricature of a basically sound observation. our overall condition is at any moment composed of both a measure of obligation and a measure of freedom, such that, within a specific sphere of life, the one is to a greater extent realized in its content, the other in its form. the restraints imposed upon us by a specific interest are felt to be less oppressive if we can choose for ourselves the objective, ideal or personal authorities to whom we are obliged without reducing the degree of dependence. a formally similar development emerges for wage labourers in a money economy. in view of the harshness and coerced nature of labour, it seems as if the wage labourer is nothing but a disguised slave. we shall see later how the fact that they are slaves of the objective process of production may be interpreted as a transitional stage towards their emancipation. from the subjective aspect, however, the relationship to the individual employer has become much more loose compared with earlier forms of labour. certainly the worker is tied to his job almost as the peasant to his lot, but the frequency with which employers change in a money economy and the frequent possibility of choosing and changing them that is made possible by the form of money wages provide an altogether new freedom within the framework of his dependency. the slave could not change his master even if he had been willing to risk much worse living conditions, whereas the industrial worker can do that at any time. by thus eliminating the pressure of irrevocable dependency upon a particular individual master, the worker is already on the way to personal freedom despite his objective bondage. the slave-owner as well as the lord of the manor had a personal interest in keeping his slaves and his serfs in a good and efficient condition; his authority over them entailed his obligation to them in his own interest. either this is not the case for the capitalist in relation to the wage labourer or, wherever it may be so, it is usually not realized. the emancipation of the labourer has to be paid for, as it were, by the emancipation of the employer, that is, by the loss of welfare that the bonded labourer enjoyed. the harshness or insecurity of his present condition is very much an indication of the process of emancipation which begins with the elimination of individually determined dependence. freedom in a social sense, like lack of freedom, is a relationship between human beings. its growth implies that the relationship changes from one of stability and invariability to one of liability and interchangeability of persons. since freedom means independence from the will of others, it commences with independence from the will of specific individuals. the lonely settler in the german or american forests is non-dependent; the inhabitants of a modern metropolis are independent in the positive sense of the word, and even though they require innumerable suppliers, workers and cooperators and would be lost without them, their relationship to them is completely objective and is only embodied in money. thus the city dweller is not dependent upon any of them as particular individuals but only upon their objective services which have a money value and may therefore be carried out by any interchangeable person. in that the purely money relationship ties the individual very closely to the group as an abstract whole and in that this is because money, in the light of our earlier deliberations, is the representative of abstract group forces, the relationship of individual persons to others simply duplicates the relationship that they have to objects as a result of money. by means of the rapid increase in the supply of commodities, on the one hand, and through the peculiar devaluation and loss of quality that objects undergo in a money economy on the other, the individual object becomes irrelevant, often almost worthless. in contrast, not only does the whole class of these objects retain its significance, but as that culture develops our dependency on these and a steadily increasing number of objects grows; one particular pin is just as good or as worthless as any other but the modern civilized individual could not manage without pins. finally, the significance of money develops according to this very same tendency. the simultaneous appearance of satire, biography and drama in their first forms exhibit a naturalistic style that centres upon the individual as such. this occurred, by the way, at a time when the money economy began perceptibly to display its social implications. even at the high point of greek culture we find a quite objective view of the world that is close to the laws of nature as one side of their view of life, the other side of which embraced the complete inner freedom and self-directedness of the personality. to the extent that the greeks lagged behind in the theoretical formulation of the concept of freedom and the self, a corresponding shortcoming prevailed in the rigorousness of their theories of nature. whatever difficulties metaphysics may find in the relationship between the objective determination of things and the subjective freedom of the individual, as aspects of culture their development runs parallel and the accentuation of the one seems to require the accentuation of the other in order to preserve the equipoise of inner life. only through the growth of the economy to its full capacity, complexity and internal interaction does the mutual dependence of people emerge. the elimination of the personal element directs the individual towards his own resources and makes him more positively aware of his liberty than would be possible with the total lack of relationships. money is the ideal representative of such a condition since it makes possible relationships between people but leaves them personally undisturbed; it is the exact measure of material achievements, but is very inadequate for the particular and the personal. to the discriminating consciousness, the restrictedness of objective dependencies that money provides is but the background that first throws the resulting differentiated personality and its freedom into full relief. of course, epistemology must distinguish the eternal law of nature from the temporal sum of its realizations. but i do not see what it is supposed to achieve within the activity of cognition except the determination of every single possible realization. the objective entity certainly has to be distinguished from the subjective perceptions in which it is reflected. yet its importance lies only in the fact that it unambiguously determines every possible perception of the object. it is true that the ethical norm lies beyond those individual actions to which it may be positively or negatively applied, but its sole meaning is to determine the value of any such action, and if there were to exist or could exist no individual actions at all to which it referred, then its actual significance would be zero. briefly, the category of these substances and values is generally different from each individual case and from the relative sum of these cases, no matter how large it may be. its absolute sum total, however, is its exact equivalent. the various kinds of this subjective movement that is termed ownership are, to some degree, dependent upon the quality of the object concerned. money, however, is the object of possession that suffers least from this dependency. acquisition and use of objects other than money depends upon particular forces, specific qualities and endeavours. it follows directly from this that the specific possession, in turn, exercises an influence upon the quality and activity of the owner. whoever owns an estate or a factory, in so far as he leaves the management to somebody else and becomes a rentier and invests his money in a picture gallery or training stables, no longer has a completely free existence. this means not only that his time is governed in a particular way and form: above all it means that a specific capacity is presupposed as well. specific material possession entails, at the same time, a retrospective predestination. the possession of different objects is a different type of ownership as soon as it is a question of more than the juridical meaning of property. it is also essential to point out here that money as a whole takes on a very distinctive character in specific monetary transactions; that is, when it does not function as a medium of exchange to other objects, but as the central content, as the object of a transaction sufficient to itself. money is an end in itself in the purely bilateral financial operation not only in the sense that it has suspended its qualities as a means, but also in the sense that it is, from the outset, the self-sufficient centre of interest, which also develops its own distinctive norms and, at the same time, completely autonomous qualities and a corresponding technique. under these circumstances in which money possesses its own colouring and specific qualifications, a personality may be expressed more readily in the management of this money than when it is the colourless means to altogether different ends. most important of all in such a case is the fact that money requires a quite specific and actually highly developed technique and only such a technique enables the personality to develop its own individual style. only when the phenomena of a specific category emerges in such abundance and internal isolation that a special technique evolves to master them, only then does the material become so malleable and pliable that the individual is able to express his own style when handling it. as soon as this strength diminishes, the owner can no longer exclude others from the enjoyment of what was hitherto his property, and it will be transferred without further ado to another person to whom it will belong, as long as his strength in turn serves to guarantee the exclusive use of the object. there is no need for such personal strength where laws do exist inasmuch as the totality of owners guarantee to the owner permanent ownership and the exclusion of all others from such ownership. in this case we can say that property is the socially guaranteed potentiality for the exclusive enjoyment of an object. this concept of property is enhanced, as it were, if it is realized in terms of money. for if somebody owns money he is assured by the constitution of the community not only of the possession of the money, but thereby of the possession of many other things as well. if the ownership of an object means only the possibility of some specific use of that object that the nature of this object permits, then the possession of money implies the possibility of the enjoyment of an indefinite number of objects. with regard to all other possessions, public order can only guarantee what the particular type of object is endowed with. the public order can guarantee to the landowner that nobody else is allowed to reap the fruits of his land, that he alone may till the soil or let it lie fallow; to the owner of the forest that he may cut timber and hunt game, etc. by minting money, however, the community guarantees to the owner of money that he can acquire grain, wood, game, etc. , with his money. this comprises whether someone is inclined to spend a large amount of money at once or prefers a number of smaller expenditures; whether the gain of a large sum induces him to wastefulness or to greater economy; whether he is apt to go off the deep end in spending such that every expenditure psychologically facilitates the next one, or whether every purchase leaves behind it an inner obstruction so that a justified purchase is made only reluctantly. all these are individual differences rooted in the depths of the personality that become most apparent or appear at all only in a money economy. but here, too, the source of this expression lies in mere quantity. all these differences in behaviour with regard to money only reflect a matter of degree, in complete contrast to the differences between personalities which we find in their various relationships to things and people. for the practical content of the activity of the artist, the official, the preacher, the teacher and the scholar is measured against an objective ideal and gives subjective satisfaction to the performer according to these standards. but then there is also the economic success of these activities, which as we know is not always a constant function of their objective and ideal success. not only can the economic success of these activities be pushed by the lowest dispositions so much into the foreground that it relegates the objective ideals merely to a means; but also, for more sensitive and idealistic people, the material success of the performance may be a consolation, a substitute, a salvation for the insufficiency that is felt with regard to the primary goal. at the very least, it will be something like a respite and a momentary shift of interest which will finally channel new strength into the main objective. if their action fails they do not have the comfort, however small, that they at least accomplished a tangible secondary success. since this success is embodied in the form of money earned, it thereby greatly facilitates the gaining of such importance. first, it demonstrates in the unambiguous manner the fact that the achievement, in spite of falling short of its own or the objective final value, must still be of value to other people. furthermore, the structure of money is particularly well suited to operating as a relatively satisfactory substitute for an absent ideal major success because, by virtue of its tangibility and its quantitative determination, it provides a certain support and psychological release from the oscillations and fluctuations of qualitative life-values, particularly where these are still in a state of being conquered. finally, the complete inner estrangement of money from ideal values prevents an entanglement of the sense of values which would be extremely disquieting to sensitive people. thus, one may define freedom as an internal division of labour, as a mutual detachment and differentiation of impulses, interests and capacities. that man is a free person whose various individual energies develop and are alive exclusively for their own purposes and norms. this includes freedom in the ordinary sense of independence from external forces. when closely analysed, the lack of freedom that we endure means nothing other than that the inner strength to combat it, the realm of the soul committed to an imposed purpose, involves other energies and interests which would otherwise unless it hindered us in other activities or enjoyments; we would never view an imposed privation as lack of freedom unless it distorted or suppressed other not be taken up. we would not view work imposed upon us as lack of freedom normal or desired sensual energies. the avoidance of the mutual influence of the individual psychic sequences can never be complete; its limit lies in the actual and indispensable psychic connections by which man, with all the diversity of his being and action, ultimately appears as a relative unity. the complete differentiation or freedom of an inner series is an inconceivable concept. the form that may be attained in this respect is that the entanglements and bonds affect increasingly fewer individual points of the series. wherever one series is unavoidably connected with another psychic sphere, it will achieve its most independent formation if it is bound up with this sphere only generally, but not specifically with each of its elements. whereas, for example, intelligence is closely connected with the will in such a way that its greatest depths and achievements depend upon the energetic vitality of the latter, thinking will deviate from its own norms and from the independence of its inner consistency as soon as the will that drives it possesses a specific colouring, a special content. intelligence definitely requires fusing with general life-energy. yet the enhancement of the emotions to their limits and their capacity to remain there will easily be handicapped if consciousness is focused one-sidedly on some particular quality of the other person. rather, only if the overall picture of the beloved determines the consciousness of them, and thereby offsets every specific and one-sided quality they possess, does it become a basis on which the feeling of love can unfold its strength and sincerity undisturbed, and can follow its own impulse. the unavoidable coalescence of psychic energies impedes the free development of the particular energies if they are connected not with a specialized side or stage of development of the other, but rather with its general character. only in this fashion can the distance be established that enables each of them to develop on their own. the case that interests us here is of the same type. the purely intellectual sequences of the psychic process cannot be completely separated from those that carry economic interests whose basic character prevents such a separation, not so much in individual or exceptional cases but in the general context of individual and social life. if this restricts the absolute independence and freedom of purely intellectual labour, then it will be more unlikely to do so, the less the bond concerns a specific economic object. if it is possible, in this context, to base the sequence of economic interests solely upon their most general interest, then the intellectual sequence will gain a distance from it which could not be maintained if the sequence of economic interests were to centre around a specific object requiring specific attention. in this respect, the most suitable kind of property was, for a long time, the ownership of land. its kind of management, the immediate utility of its products and their regular marketability all permit a relative differentiation and uninterruptedness of intellectual energies. the problems of tariff policy, of the protection of labour, of rights of association, the furthering of wholesale or retail trade, of trade regulations including those of residence requirements and of sabbath observance will be answered in the most contradictory manner within this complex. the same is true for big business and large landed estates which, in terms of their income, belong to the same stratum but, in terms of political interests, belong to completely different camps. the fusion of any one class on the basis of the formal criterion of money income thus loses practical, political significance altogether. the state thereby becomes more dependent upon measures that fit the totality and diversity of interests. this development may be diverted or covered over by countless countervailing forces. but through this absolute retracing to the ego, it would gain the unity, cohesion and palpability that give meaning and value to what we call objectivity. just as in this case the subject would transcend its antithesis to the object which it has completely absorbed and transcended, so, in the other case, the antithesis is overcome by the fact that the objective behaviour has swallowed up all subjectivity without leaving a residue upon which the antithesis could survive. money as a mortgage, as the proceeds from produce or even from land itself moves between the landowner and his property and, by making him more independent of the specific quality of his property and by depriving it of its individual flavour, brings about a growing equality between nobility and other strata. the principle of equal rights for all which finally predominated in the greek democracies dissolves the mutual dependence of owning and being. but here, too, the money economy only presents itself as the most powerful, and at the same time as the most obvious, factor and expression of a much more broadly based movement. in germany in the earliest times we see that landed property was not an independent object but the result of the personal membership of the individual to his local community. land in itself was not the kind of qualified object whose ownership would have given the individual his significance and his following. rather, because the person possessed this specific importance he was endowed with a specific piece of landed property. this led to the tendency to split up the land and to draw it into the restlessness of economic life. when this tendency was finally checked by the stability inherent in the soil, it was replaced by money, by the most personally estranged economic object. yet money was the most suitable substance for the clear expression of that separation of being and owning that had already started to affect the conditions of land ownership. finally, the same phenomenon was displayed from its other side and from the other end of the social ladder in the thirteenth century. in this period, the peasantry had gained a very high level of freedom, particularly in the eastern german provinces, which had been colonized by free peasants in close connection with the then relatively highly developed money economy. however, after a short period of time a sudden reversal occurred: the manorial system was extended, particularly east of the elbe, and successfully endeavoured to bind the peasant to the soil. it seems probable to me that the development of private property originally and most intensively did not take up the products of labour as such but the tools of labour, including weapons. for tools function most directly as extensions of the limbs, and the resistance of the objects against our impulses is usually experienced only at their end-point. the activity factor present in owning tools is greater than for other possessions and therefore, next to the body, they are the possession that is most completely incorporated into the ego. such an interpretation of property indicates the way in which the world views of idealism and freedom are complemented by their counterparts: objects must enter into the ego, just as the ego enters into objects. that selfawareness has transcended its immediate boundaries, and has become rooted in objects that only indirectly concern it, really proves to what extent property as such means nothing other than the extension of the personality into the objects and, through its domination of them, the gaining of its sphere of influence. this explains the strange phenomenon that sometimes the sum total of possessions appears to be identical with the totality of the personality. there was a certain class of serfs in medieval france whose legal right it was to enter the state of freedom if they gave over all their property to the lord. for the significance of this quality for the market lies not only in the inner qualities of the state or the brewery, the mine or the bank, but in the relationship of these to all other stocks on the market and their conditions. therefore, it does not affect their actual basis if, for instance, large insolvencies in argentina depress the price of chinese bonds, although the security of such bonds is no more affected by that event than by something that happens on the moon. for the value of these stocks, for all their external stability, none the less depends on the overall situation of the market, the fluctuations of which, at any one point, may for example make the further utilization of those returns less profitable. over and above these stock market fluctuations, which even though they presuppose the synthesis of the single object with others are still objectively produced, there exists one factor that originates in speculation itself. these wagers on the future quoted price of one stock themselves have the most considerable influence on such a price. for instance, as soon as a powerful financial group, for reasons that have nothing to do with the quality of the stock, becomes interested in it, its quoted price will increase; conversely, a bearish group is able to bring about a fall in the quoted price by mere manipulation. here the real value of the object appears to be the irrelevant substratum above which the movement of market values rises only because it has to be attached to some substance, or rather to some name. the relation between the real and final value of the object and its representation by a bond has lost all stability. this clearly shows the absolute flexibility of this form of value, a form that the objects have gained through money and which has completely detached them from their real basis. now value follows, almost without resistance, the psychological impulses of the temper, of greed, of unfounded opinion, and it does this in such a striking manner since objective circumstances exist that could provide exact standards of valuation. but value in terms of the money form has made itself independent of its own roots and foundation in order to surrender itself completely to subjective energies. here, where speculation itself may determine the fate of the object of speculation, the permeability and flexibility of the money form of values has found its most triumphant expression through subjectivity in its strictest sense. somebody told me that he felt the urge to buy everything that he liked very much, but not for himself or in order to possess it; his only concern was to give an active expression to his liking of the things, to let them pass through his hands and, in so doing, to set the stamp of his personality upon them. money thus provides a unique extension of the personality which does not seek to adorn itself with the possession of goods. such a personality is indifferent to control over objects; it is satisfied with that momentary power over them, and while it appears as if this avoidance of any qualitative relationship to objects would not offer any extension and satisfaction to the person, the very act of buying is experienced as such a satisfaction, because the objects are absolutely obedient to money. in comparison with ordinary extravagance, which stops at the first stage of possession and enjoyment and the mere squandering of money, the behaviour of this man is particularly eccentric because the enjoyments, represented here by their money equivalent, are so close and directly tempting to him. the absence of a positive owning and using of things on the one hand, and the fact on the other that the mere act of buying is experienced as a relationship between the person and the objects and as a personal satisfaction, can be explained by the expansion that the mere act of spending money affords to the person. money builds a bridge between such people and objects. in crossing this bridge, the mind experiences the attraction of their possession even if it does in fact not attain it. to aesthetic contemplation, the notion of the objects unfolds so easily, effortlessly and harmoniously as if they were solely determined by the basic laws of the self. hence the feeling of liberation which is part of the aesthetic mood, the release from the dull pressure of things, the expansion of the joyful and free self into things, the reality of which usually oppresses it. such must be the psychological flavour of the enjoyment of merely owning money. it means a peculiar coalescence, abstraction and anticipation of actual ownership and gives to consciousness that free scope that ominous self-extension through an unresistant medium, that self-absorption of all possibilities without doing violence or denying reality, all of which are part of any aesthetic enjoyment. the definition of beauty as une promesse de bonheur also points to the similarity between the psychological form of aesthetic attraction and the attraction of money; for where else can the latter lie if not in the promise of pleasures that money may provide? to stress this element appears to be paradoxical only because, on the one hand, the means of making money usually lacks this element, and on the other, the person who utters the joy usually does so in a form altogether different from the idealistic one. this should not disguise the fact that the pleasure of money ownership as such is one of the most abstract enjoyments and is most remote from sensual immediacy since it is exclusively experienced through a process of thought and fantasy. it resembles the joy of victory which is so strong in some people that they do not even ask what they gain by such a victory. of course, greed may pass beyond this point, but it reveals its absurdity both in the lack of satisfaction that is part of its own fulfilment, and in the occasional constraint and restriction with which an excess of possessions turns into the opposite of their original character and goal. this leads to such phenomena as that of unprofitable property because the activity of the owner is insufficient to realize a return on it; the despot who becomes tired of ruling his slaves, because his will to power ceases at the unconditional surrender and the lack of resistance which would make him aware of himself; the property-owner who has neither the time nor the strength for the enjoyment of his property because both are completely spent in the administration and nurture of that property. the objects differ only as to the question of what amount of the personality they can absorb at the same time, that is at what point possession becomes meaningless, because the self is able to control it only up to this point. here, too, money occupies a special position. one might say that the administration, control and enjoyment of money requires less of the person than do other possessions, and that therefore the size of the possessions he may control and build up to an economic sphere of his personality is larger than it is for other forms of property. the ability of the individual to expand, which is limited by his own nature, exhibits a greater elasticity and freedom in relation to money than to any other possession. the difference between this and our earlier considerations is this: earlier it was the specific character of objects that broke down the expansion of the self, whereas here it is the limitations in personal power that must diminish after a certain quantity of possessions has been reached, even with the complete elasticity of the objects. this is a phenomenon that is postponed if the possessions take the form not of specific objects but of money. in the history of ideas we are confronted with a development which, despite its simple outline, belongs to the most significant forms of intellectual life by virtue of its comprehensive and penetrating realization. certain areas are originally completely dominated by one characteristic trait. in the course of time, the unity is split into more and more subsections, one of which represents the character of the whole in a limited sense and contrasts with the other parts. formulated differently, despite any relative contrast between two elements of a whole, both may none the less exhibit the character of one of them, though in an absolute form. for instance, the moral-philosophical justification of egoism may be correct in claiming that we cannot possibly act other than in our personal interest and for personal satisfaction. but then one would have to differentiate between egoism in the narrower and in the broader sense. the power of money to bridge distances enables the owner and his possessions to exist so far apart that each of them may follow their own precepts to a greater extent than in the period when the owner and his possessions still stood in a direct mutual relationship, when every economic engagement was also a personal one, and when every change in personal direction or position meant, at the same time, a corresponding change in economic interests. for primitive peoples in all parts of the world, the solidarity between the person and his possession is expressed in the custom that the possession, to the extent that it is personal, conquered or acquired by work, goes into the grave with the owner. it is obvious from such customs how much objective cultural development, whose progress depends upon the continuous accumulation of inherited goods, became retarded. it is only through inheritance that possessions reach beyond the boundary of the individual and begin to lead an objective and independent existence. this differentiation by means of money and this individual freedom brought about by differentiation affects not only the rentier. the labour relationship too develops similar features although they are more difficult to recognize. earlier economic organizations and their present remaining forms in crafts and the retail trade rest upon relationships of personal subordination of the apprentice to the master, the employee to the storeowner, etc. at such levels economic activity is carried out through the interaction of factors that are entirely of a direct personal nature. in each case, this activity is carried out in the spirit of the leading personality and with the subordination of all others to his subjectivity. through the growing superiority of technical and objective elements over personal ones this relationship takes on a different character. the production manager and the labourer, the director and the salesman in the large department store are now equally subordinated to an objective purpose, and only within this common relationship does subordination continue as a technical necessity in which the requirements of production as an objective process are expressed. this is the direction of culture for which, as we have seen, the money economy paved the way. the separation of the worker from his means of production, the ownership of which is considered the focal point of social misery, would in a completely different sense appear as a salvation. this would be true if such a separation were to mean the personal differentiation of the worker as a person from the purely objective conditions in which the techniques of production placed him. thus, money would bring about one of those frequent developments in which the importance of one factor turns into its opposite as soon as it has unfolded a basic, consistent and all-pervasive effectiveness out of its original limited efficiency. such a benevolent and, one might even say, gracious treatment of the bondsman has largely disappeared to the extent that money payments increasingly replaced contributions in kind and more severe officials replaced the lord of the manor who lived close to the serfs. the appointment of officials indicated the objectification of management. the official managed according to impersonal technical requirements which were supposed to produce maximum objective results possible; he stood between the serf and the lord with the same depersonalizing effect as money moves between the service of one and the enjoyment of the other. this separate independence of the mediator is also illustrated by the fact that the change from services in kind to money payment provided the bailiff with new opportunities for dishonesty in relation to the absent lord of the manor. however much the peasant profited from the personal character of the relationship, and in this respect suffered from its objectification and transformation into a money relationship, it still remained the indispensable road to the abolition of serfdom as a whole. the specific importance of money within this series arises not out of the part played by the receiver, but that played by the giver. for money enables us to compare the total equivalent for the life-work of a single worker with the contributions of many people, whether these contributions are the entrance fees of concert-goers or the expenditures of book-buyers or the taxes of citizens from which the civil servants are paid. this is particularly evident in the connection which the money economy evidently has with the emergence of mechanical reproductions. after the invention of book printing, the same price per sheet of paper is paid for the most miserable trash as for the most sublime poem; after photography had been invented, a copy of the bella di tiziano is no more expensive than that of a cabaret singer; after the mechanical production of utensils was developed, utensils in excellent taste are no more expensive than those in poor taste. if the creator of one kind makes more money than the other, then this is only the result of the larger number of buyers who all pay the same price regardless of quality. herein lies the democratic character of money when compared with giving gifts to honoured persons as in forms of feudalism or patronage. in contrast, the anonymity of the person who gives money certainly supports the subjective independence and free growth of the person who offers the goods. the rapid growth of mechanical modes of reproduction in particular, and consequently the tendency of money prices to become independent of the quality of the product, breaks the bond that a specific payment for a specific achievement had created between buyer and producer. in the process of differentiation between the person and his achievement, money supports the independence of the person regardless of whether the separation of the originally intertwined elements has its origins in the growing independence of the person or of the achievement. this is, however, a general tendency of the whole society that extends inside the individual. just as money affects the elements of the individual, so it also acts primarily upon the elements of society, that is upon individuals. this latter consequence of the money economy is often emphasized and is associated with the fact that money is a transfer to the achievements of others. whereas in the period prior to the emergence of a money economy, the individual was directly dependent upon his group and the exchange of services united everyone closely with the whole of society, today everyone carries around with him, in a condensed latent form, his claim to the achievements of others. everyone has the choice of deciding when and where he wants to assert this claim, and therefore loosen the direct relations of the earlier form of exchange. money not only renders the relations of individuals to the group as a whole more independent, but also makes the content of that particular association and the relationship of its members to it undergo a completely new process of differentiation. the medieval corporation embraced the whole individual: a guild of cloth-makers was not an association of people who merely represented the interests of cloth-making, but a living community in technical, social, religious, political and many other respects. even though such an association was centred around objective interests, it rested directly on its members and they were absorbed in it. in contrast to this unified form, the money economy has made possible innumerable associations that either only take money contributions from their members or tend to pursue merely monetary interests. this is particularly true of the joint stock company whose shareholders are united solely in their interest in the dividends, to such an extent that they do not even care what the company produces. the disintegrating and isolating effect of money is not only the general precondition and corollary of this conciliatory and unifying quality; under specific historic conditions, money simultaneously exerts both a disintegrating and a unifying effect. for instance, the organic unity and narrowness of family life has on the one hand been destroyed as a consequence of the money economy, while, acknowledging this as a fact, it has been emphasized that the family has become almost nothing more than an organization for inheritance. if, among several interests that determine the cohesion of the group, one of them has a destructive effect upon all the others, then this interest will survive the others and become the only bond between the different elements whose other relationships it has destroyed. it is not only because of its immanent character, but precisely because it destroys so many other kinds of relationships between people, that money establishes relationships between elements that otherwise would have no connection whatsoever. one of the few rules that may be established with some degree of generality concerning the form of social development is this: that the enlargement of the group goes hand in hand with the individualization and independence of its individual members. the evolution of societies usually commences from relatively small groups which hold their elements in strict and equal bonds and then proceeds to a relative larger group which affords freedom, independence and mutual differentiation. the history of family formations such as that of religious communities, the development of economic cooperatives and political parties all illustrate this type. the importance of money for the development of individuality is thus very closely related to the importance that it possesses for the enlargement of social groups. this latter role requires no further elaboration here. i have previously analysed the interaction between the money economy and the size of the economic unit. every kind of honour is originally the honour of an estate or class, and the honour of man in general or of the single individual only places such demands upon the person as are agreed upon by all the smaller groups within the larger. the honour that does not subordinate its representative to others but brings him into prominence also requires a certain narrowness and solidarity of the group; the name of the victor at the olympics resounded through the whole of that part of greece that was closely knit together by this interest. the money prize has an egotistic quality which suggests itself to members of a large group. the unegotistic character which corresponds to the solidarity of the small group is most beautifully symbolized by the custom that the golden wreath presented by the athenian council of the five hundred for good administration was set aside in the temple. within smaller and closed interest groups, as for instance for sport affairs or for industrial experts, the honorary prize is fully justified even today. the enlargement of the social group requires the transition to expressing merit in money terms because it means the inescapable atomization of such a group. since it is impossible to provoke the same sentiment in the same manner in a large group as in a small one, distinction within a large group requires a means by which the recipient is no longer dependent upon the agreement and co-operation of the whole group. commercial law in the middle ages in germany was originally only the co-operative law of the individual merchant groups. it developed into a common law on the basis of the universalistic notion that the whole merchant class of the german empire, or even of the world, in fact formed a huge guild. thus, the common law of the merchant class developed law of commercial transactions. this development clearly shows how the law, in its extension from a narrow to a much wider group, detaches itself from a relationship to mere persons and becomes a law of objective transactions. it was this development that was favoured by and that also favoured an increasing extension of money transactions. a twelfth-century irish manuscript states that the distribution of land was carried out because the number of families had grown too large, while in russia, where we still have occasion to observe the transition from communal to private property, it is quite clear that the mere increase in population favours and accelerates this process. however, money is clearly the best-suited foundation for the private and personal form of property. the distribution in separate parts, the fixing of property rights, the realization of individual claims has been made possible only by money. exchange as such is the primary and purest scheme for the quantitative enlargement of the economic spheres of life. money as an abstract form evolves out of the economic interactions within a relatively large circle and at the same time, through its merely quantitative character, permits the most exact mechanical expression of every specific demand, of the value of every individual work activity, of every personal tendency. in so doing, money first completes in the economic sphere the general sociological correlation between the expansion of the group and the development of individuality. the relationship of money to private property and thereby to the free development of the personality is largely conditioned by its movability, and this becomes particularly obvious in its opposite, the ownership of land. landed property extends beyond the connection with the individual in two directions: breadthwise because, more than anything else, it is suited to the collective property of a group, and depthwise because it is the best object for inheritance. if the whole property of a primitive group consisted of landed property, then development would take place in two main directions. first, by producing food from property it gains a more mobile character; as soon as this happens, private property emerges. as a rule, nomadic peoples hold land as common property of the tribe and assign it only for the use of individual families; but livestock is always the private property of these families. as far as we know, the nomadic tribe has never been communistic with regard to cattle as property. it is reported that in the nicobar islands it is considered wrong to inherit from kinsfolk and therefore, except for trees and dwellings, assets are destroyed. trees and dwellings have the character of immovable property, so their connection with the individual is a loose one and they are thus suitable for being transferred to others. we have a dual relationship to things: man persists and things change, and things remain and men change. where the former predominates, as in movable property, the accentuation is on man, and one is inclined to emphasize the individual as the essential element. where, in contrast, the objects persist and survive in relation to man, the individual recedes in importance. land appears as the rock upon which individual life, like the wave, rises and runs off. therefore immovable property is disposed towards allowing the individual to move into the background, his relationship to the collectivity here being analogous to his relationship to objects. this also accounts for the close relationship of landed property and aristocracy based on the principle of inheritability. in the merovingian period the solidus was no longer 40 but was only 12 denari. one may speculate that the reason for this change was that the fine at that time imposed according to solidi should be reduced and it was decreed that whenever a solidus was required the fine should be no longer 40 but 12 denari. from this there evolved the solidus fine of 12 denari which finally became the generally accepted one. and it is reported that in the palau islands any kind of payment is simply called a fine. here it is not the different coins that determine the scale against which the relative seriousness of the offence is measured, but rather the contrary, that the valuation of the offence creates a measure for establishing money values. in the middle ages in the area around florence we find many gradations of serfs as coloni, sedentes, quilini, inquilini, adscripticii, censiti, etc. , whose bondage was probably in reverse relation to their wergild so that there was no wergild at all for the totally dependent. even as late as the thirteenth century such a long outdated and merely formal criterion was put forward before the courts in order to grade testimonies accordingly. from the standpoint of individualistic utility, wergild should have been maintained all the more strongly, the more someone was the property of a third person. the fact that it happened differently, and that the rank order functioned as a symbol for the weight to be attached to personal testimony, serves to underline the point at which wergild became an expression of the objective value of the person. that such heightening of the value of human beings occurred is, so to speak, to the credit of christianity, whose views were anticipated in many other appraisals while at the same time the historical development of its consequences was postponed for a long time; for the church did not fight against slavery as energetically as it was really obliged to do and it actually supported the atonement for homicide by wergild, if only for public peace and in order to avoid bloodshed. yet despite this removal of human value from any relativity, from any merely quantitatively determined sequence, it corresponds to the mentality of christianity. what distinguishes a higher culture from a lower one is the multiplicity as well as the length of teleological series. the needs of primitive man are limited in number, and if they are satisfied at all then this is accomplished by a relatively short chain of means. through their relationship to the one god, all significance, absoluteness and transcendency was reflected back upon them. the tremendous authoritative dictum that preached an eternal destiny and infinite significance of the soul suspended with one stroke all that was merely relative, all merely quantitative differences in worthiness. the idea of an ultimate purpose which christianity tied to the absolute value of the soul has clearly undergone a peculiar transformation. just as every need becomes more permanent the more it is satisfied, so christianity has ingrained to a large extent the need for an ultimate purpose by its continuous consciousness of it over a long period, so that those who now reject the doctrine shall leave behind them the heritage of an empty longing for a definite purpose of their whole existence: the need has outlived its fulfilment. the purpose is now to affect the subject himself, and any penalty as practical action is merely a means towards this end. money fines thus take on a totally different meaning from the former monetary compensation for wounding and killing. they are not supposed to compensate for the damage done, but to inflict pain upon the culprit. hence modern law, in cases of insolvency, replaces it with imprisonment which not only brings in no money to the state but also requires considerable expense by the state. in so far as fines are imposed because of the subjective reflexes with which the criminal experiences them, fines can, in fact, produce an individual trait that is alien to money as such. this trait is documented by some qualities that make fines superior to other kinds of punishment: it can be well graded, it can be completely cancelled; and it does not, as did imprisonment or even mutilation in former times, paralyse or reduce the labour power of the delinquent, but rather encourages the delinquent to make up for the loss. under primitive circumstances, money may even possess the exact opposite quality of its real nature, namely sacred dignity, the quality of an exceptional value. i refer to the strict norms mentioned earlier which reserved certain kinds of money exclusively for important or ceremonial transactions, and specifically to evidence from the caroline islands. the islanders, it appears, do not need any money to support themselves because they all are self-sufficient. and yet money plays a significant role, because the acquisition of a wife, membership of the local state and the political significance of the community are all dependent upon the ownership of money. from such circumstances we can understand why money is not as common there as in our society in which it satisfies the lower needs rather than the higher ones. californian indians, where, even after shell money had been taken out of circulation, it remained the gift to the dead for the happy hunting grounds. the religious flavour of atonement or payment as a whole in its archaic form already at this stage of development takes current money to be inadequate for the sacredness of the events. it leads to the same debasement of money as the contrary movement mentioned earlier, and at a later stage it further severs the value of man from the value of money, thereby producing one of the most important factors in the development of the importance of money. i want to mention here just one more manifestation of this trend. the medieval prohibitions upon taking interest rest on the assumption that money is not a commodity. on the contrary, money was considered to be inflexible or unproductive and therefore it was deemed a sin to demand a price for its use as one would for the use of a commodity. the dissociation of the value of the person from the value of money which is expressed in the down-grading of fines to the most minor offences is itself counteracted by another tendency. the legal retribution for injustice and injury that one person inflicts upon another becomes more and more restricted to cases in which the interest of the victim is expressible in money terms. if we survey the sequences in the stages of culture, then it will be seen to be less frequent at a lower level than at a higher one, and here again less than at the next higher one. this is life, where circumstances ascribe especially noticeable considerably greater importance to money than do rural circumstances in those instances in which the general level of both remains relatively low. in modern arabia, for instance, the vendetta prevails amongst desertdwellers, whereas wergild is paid in the cities. in urban areas dominated by economic interests, the value of a human being is more likely to be interpreted in terms of a sum of money. since it must be the intention of the law to punish every fraudulent destruction of personal values, this can be based only on the assumption that all such destructible values possess a money equivalent. the concept of wergild is again relevant here, though in a rudimentary form. if a negation of a personal value can be compensated for by giving money to the injured party, then it must be presupposed that this value can be reduced to money. none the less, modern criminal law rejects the conclusion that fraudulent damage is sufficiently expiated by the exchange of money; yet with reference to the object of the act, the notion prevails that any fraudulently acquired value may be represented by a sum of money. i need mention here only some cases pointed out by lawyers themselves: the landlord who does not permit the tenant to use the garden despite his contractual right to do so, the traveller to whom the hotel owner refuses lodging despite written assent, the school principal with whom the teacher breaks his contract without being able to secure a substitute. all these people, although their claim to compensation is as clear as daylight, cannot raise this claim because the damage cannot be equated with a specific amount of money. who could demonstrate the precise money equivalent of these subjective and objective inconveniences and impairments? if such a proof is not given, then the damages in question are only negligible quantities to the judge; they do not exist as far as he is concerned. it is interesting to observe how roman law, in its middle period, took the opposite view in this respect. monetary conviction, the same as was established in civil suits, was a penalty that went beyond the value of the object and was awarded to the injured party in order to compensate him for the particular insidiousness or malice from which he had to suffer by the defendant. the deposit that had been malevolently denied, the money held in trust for a ward by the guardian and similar obligations, were not simply refunded; in addition the judge, and under certain circumstances the plaintiff, was entitled to determine compensation not only for the objective damage directly equivalent to a certain amount of money, but for malevolent violation of the personal legal sphere as a whole. such regulations reflect the feeling that the personal values that the law is supposed to guarantee are not confined to the money value of the object. rather, their violation requires a penalty over and above that. in the one instance, money here plays a lesser role, but in the other a more important one, than is the case today. for that very reason, the present situation displays a combination of both of those typical tendencies that modern culture imposes upon the function of money. on the one hand, it gives money an importance that, as it were, makes it the world soul of the universe of practical interests and which, in continuing its motion beyond its proper limits, stifles personal values as well. on the other hand, however, modern culture distances money from these personal values, makes its significance less and less compatible with all that is really personal, and suppresses the assertion of personal values rather than accept such an inadequate equivalent. there are some analogies to the earlier state of affairs in which the whole person was compensated for by money in the particular development connected with the monetary purchase of women. marriage by purchase, its extraordinary frequency in the history of civilized nations and today in less civilized countries, the extent of its variations and forms are all well known. we are interested here only in the conclusions that can be drawn from the facts as to the nature of values that are purchased. the feeling of degradation that modern man possesses concerning the purchase of a person for money or money equivalents is not always justified with reference to earlier historical circumstances. there is no doubt that this businesslike attitude completely suppresses the individuality of the persons and their relationships. and yet the organization of marriage affairs as found in marriage by purchase signifies considerable progress when compared with the more brutal conditions of marriage by robbery or of completely primitive sexual relationships which, although not completely promiscuous, were none the less probably carried out without that stabilizing norm that was supplied in the socially regulated purchase of a wife. time and time again, the development of mankind reaches stages at which the suppression of individuality is the unavoidable transitional point for its subsequent free development, at which the mere externality of the determinations of life favours spiritual growth, at which oppressive formation results in a reservoir of forces that later emerge as personal quality. viewed from the ideal of fully developed individuality, such periods certainly appear to be brutal and undignified. narinyeri, marriage is conducted by the exchange of the sisters of two men. if, instead of this arrangement, one of the girls elopes with a lover, then not only is she considered to be socially inferior, but she also loses the claim for protection which the clan into which she was born otherwise owes her. this clearly illustrates the social significance of this nonindividual type of marriage. the clan no longer protects the girl; it severs its relationship with her because it has not received an equivalent for her. only the money economy brings together in the sphere of production the objective technology, the spread and wealth of relationships and at the same time the one-sidedness of the division of labour, through which the earlier state of indifference between home interests and interests in acquisition becomes split and a specific representative becomes necessary for each of them. under these circumstances, there can be no doubt about the roles of husband and wife. similarly, the price for the bride by which the man purchases the productive capacity of the woman is replaced by the dowry, which compensates for his having to support the wife or which is supposed to give her an independence and security side by side with her productive husband. this relationship explains the role of the pimp as well as the frequently reported cases of lesbianism among prostitutes. because the prostitute has to endure a terrible void and lack of satisfaction in her relations with men, she searches for a substitute relationship in which at least some other qualities of the partner are involved. neither the notion that the sexual act is something universal and impersonal, nor the fact that, on the face of it, men and women are equally involved in it changes this relationship in which the stake of the woman is infinitely more personal, more essential, encompassing more of her ego than that of the man and for which, therefore, a money equivalent is most unsuitable and inadequate, the giving and taking of which means the extreme abasement of the female personality. the degradation of the woman by prostitution is not in itself explained by its polyandric character, or by the fact that she has sexual relationships with many men. the rising value of human life and the declining value of money conspired to render wergild impossible. the same cultural process of differentiation that gives to the individual a special significance which renders him relatively unique and irreplaceable makes money the standard and equivalent of such a divergent range of objects that the growing indifference and objectivity makes it increasingly less suitable as an equivalent of personal values. that disproportion between commodity and price that gives prostitution its character in our culture does not yet exist to the same extent in lower cultures. when travellers report that the women of many barbaric tribes display a striking physical and often mental similarity to men, then this is because they lack that differentiation which lends a value to the more highly civilized woman and to her sexual honour that cannot be compensated for in money terms, even though she may appear comparatively less differentiated and closer to the species type than a man of the same status. the second view of marriage for money is that it is a variation on prostitution, in a different form but subject to the same observations as on prostitution. this view holds that it is polyandric just as much as it is polygamic but because of the social superiority of the male only the consequences of the polygamous element, the degradation of the female, takes effect in marriage for money. thus it seems as if marriage for money, as a means of permanently prostituting oneself, would degrade either partner that is motivated by money, regardless of whether they were male or female. however, this is usually not the case. the woman, by marrying, submits the whole of her interests and energies to this relationship most of the time and offers her personality, both the centre and the periphery, without reservation. in contrast, the married man is from the outset customarily granted much greater freedom of movement while in addition withholding the essential part of his personality that is taken up by his professional interests. there are, however, certain reservations and counterbalancing forces that set limits to the avalanche-like growth of superior power, such as, for example, tradition, reverence, law and the inherent limits to the expansion of power. but money, with its absolute flexibility and lack of quality, is least suited to put a stop to such a trend. where a relationship based on money interests exists in which superiority and advantage rest from the outset on one side, these tendencies may grow further, more radically and more thoroughly in this direction, as if other motives of a more objective and objectifying nature are the basis for this relationship. advertising in general is one of the most powerful cultural factors because it provides the individual with an infinitely higher chance of achieving satisfaction than if he were to depend upon the chance of finding the object directly. it is the increasing degree of individualization of needs themselves that makes advertising necessary as a means of enlarging the range of offers. yet, particularly in the stratum of more differentiated people, who, generally speaking, seem to be the most dependent on it, advertising for marriage is completely out of the question. there must be a positive reason for such a repudiation of this means of finding a partner. in analysing the published marriage advertisements one discovers that the financial status of both parties is the real, though sometimes disguised, centre of interest. this is quite logical. all other qualities of the person cannot be stated in an advertisement with any degree of accuracy. this peculiar, as it were, methodological merit of money ownership really renders the marriage advertisement impossible for precisely those social strata who would need it most, because it implies the admittance of mere money interests. whereas for the owner himself the fact that values can be expressed in money provides a clear and unveiled insight into the state of his possessions, for other people it allows a concealment and disguise of possessions and transactions that would be impossible for other tangible forms of property. the concealability of money is the symptom, or the extreme form, of its relationship to private ownership. compared with all other goods, money can be made invisible and non-existent to others and thus has affinities with intellectual possessions. just as the private and, as it were, solipsistic character of mental possessions both begins and ends with keeping silent, so the private individualistic nature of money finds its complete expression in the possibility of keeping it secret. herein undoubtedly lies a great danger for those who have claims and interests in the management of the economy without being able to control and influence it themselves. on the other hand, the representatives of the public interest in those small circles disposed of more mystical authority and concealment than those of large groups in which the extension of their area of authority, the objectivity of their techniques and their distancing from the individual person allowed them to tolerate the public nature of the behaviour of the authorities. thus politics, administration and the law lose their secrecy and inaccessibility to the same extent as the individual gains the possibility of even greater withdrawal and of exclusion of all outsiders from his private affairs. one need only compare english with german history or survey the cultural history of the last two centuries in order to recognize this correlation. even in the religious sphere, this process of differentiation is distinguishable, especially during the reformation. undoubtedly, the need for heat may be just as urgent a need and just as necessary for survival as bread. but its use is certainly less direct than that of bread. there are more intermediate stages on the way to survival, and it is only fair to assume that the tempted person has more time for reflection than would otherwise be possible for more immediate needs. money is the farthest removed from such direct enjoyments; the interest is always focused on what lies behind it, so that the temptation that, as it were, radiates from it is not a natural instinct and does not possess the force of such an instinct to act as an excuse for succumbing to it. it has been emphasized as something unheard of that aristides, despite his many discretionary powers, died a poor man. in the small ancient city-states, the dishonesty of a single person did not yet shake the foundations of the whole society, because only a very small part was based on a money economy and because relationships were transparent and uncomplicated and could easily be kept in balance. therefore it has been rightly said that the fate of athens was every day dependent upon the decisions on the pnyx. under the modern highly complex circumstances of public life with its innumerable subterranean forces of the money economy that extend in all directions, the bribery of officials has much more detrimental effects. the usual division of our objective norms of valuation into logical, ethical and aesthetic norms is quite incomplete when viewed in the light of our practical judgments. to take a very striking example, we value the distinct formation of individuality, the mere fact that a personality possesses a specific and concise form and power. we experience as valuable the incomparability and uniqueness with which a person represents, as it were, only his own idea as valuable to us, often indeed in contrast to the ethical and aesthetic inferiority of the content of such a phenomenon. we are interested not in the completion of that system of norms but rather in pointing out that the systematic approach as such is just as erroneous here as it is with regard to the five senses or the twelve kantian categories of reason. the development of our species continuously creates new possibilities for responding to the world both sensually and intellectually and new categories for evaluating it. the favourable result of that transformation was due to the fact that the obligated person had hitherto contributed a personal strength and individual determinateness to the relationship without receiving a proportional equivalent. what the other party offered him was of a purely impersonal nature. the rights that he received from the relationship were relatively impersonal; the obligations that he accepted were completely personal. in that these obligations became depersonalized by taking on the form of money payments, the disproportion between them was removed. however, the result will be completely different if the obligated person cannot simply be paid off with a concrete return, but if he has acquired a right, an influence, a personal importance through this relationship; and this is precisely because he contributes such a definite personal service to that relationship. under such circumstances, the objectification of the relationship brought about by changing to the money form of payment will have unfavourable results just as in the first case the results were favourable. the historical constellations that are intrinsically supported by this implication can be arranged in an ascending series in which each link, in accordance with the particular relations between the elements, provides room for their freedom as well as for their suppression. it is clear that the purely personal relationship may be represented just as much by the harshness of personal subjugation to a person as by the dignity of free association. both elements change if the determining factor has an impersonal character, whether this impersonality is the material one of an external object or a majority of persons in which the subjectivity of the individual disappears. the previous chapter has shown how the transition operates in this case as liberation and how often people prefer subordination to an impersonal collectivity or a purely objective organization to subordination to a person. i only wish to mention here that slaves, as well as serfs, used to have a relatively easy time if they belonged to the state, that the employees in modern warehouses with impersonal management are usually better situated than in small business units where they are personally exploited by the owner. conversely, where very personal values are engaged, the change to impersonal forms is experienced as loss of dignity and liberty. the aristocratic voluntary devotion, including extreme sacrifices, has often been replaced by a feeling of humiliation and degradation, where the sacrifices, even at a reduced level, were changed to objective legal obligations. even during the sixteenth century, the princes of france, germany, scotland and the netherlands met with considerable resistance when they ruled through trained substitutes or administrative bodies. authority was experienced as something personal to which one was willing to comply solely for reasons of personal devotion, whereas, in relation to an impersonal body, there was only subjugation. therefore we find that they are also occasionally resolutely refused. when peter iv of arragon asked the arragon estates for money credit, they replied that this was not customary and that though his christian subjects would be willing to serve him personally, to offer money would be a matter for jews and moors. in anglo-saxon england, too, the king had no right to impose direct taxation; instead, the old teutonic principle prevailed that the commonwealth was based on personal service in the army and the court. when the king raised danegeld, ostensibly as a protective measure against new invasions, this signified the decay of the state. in so far as it is in their power, the people under obligation accept a change from personal service to money payments only if their traditional position does not imply participation in the sphere of power of the beneficiaries. different sections of the same group often take a very different attitude according to this point of view. alongside this type of instance in which the monetary discharge of obligations corresponds to a degradation of the obligated person, there stands a second supplementation of the results analysed in the last chapter. we have seen what progress it meant for the serf if he could discharge his obligations by money payments. the opposite result occurs for him when the change in his relationship to money is instigated by the other party, that is when the lord of the manor buys from him the piece of land which he hitherto possessed with more or less extended rights. the grounds for the prohibitions issued in the eighteenth century and far into the nineteenth in the area of the old german empire against the buying out of the peasant are, it is true, basically associated with fiscal or very general agricultural policy. yet occasionally the sentiment seems to have prevailed that it was unjust to the peasant if land was taken away from him even in exchange for a very fair monetary compensation. wherever the purely negative sense of freedom operates, freedom is considered to be incomplete and degrading. giordano bruno, in his enthusiasm for the unified regular life of the cosmos, considered free will to be a defect that characterized man in his imperfection since god alone was subject to necessity. after this very abstract example we can give a very concrete one. the land of the prussian cottagers was located outside the community farmland where the various holdings lay in mixed strips. since such strips could be cultivated only according to common rule, the cottager had much more individual freedom. yet since he stood outside the community, he possessed not the positive freedom to participate in decisions concerning the fields, but only the negative freedom of not being bound by communal decisions. this is the reason why the cottager, even with considerable property, remains in a subjugated position with very little social prestige. in itself, freedom is an empty form which becomes effective, alive and valuable only in and through the development of other life-contents. if we analyse the events by which freedom is gained, we always notice, alongside the formal and pure concept of freedom, a substantively determined content which, however, by giving it a positive significance, also contains a certain limitation, a directive as to what has to be positively accomplished by this freedom. all the actions by which freedom is gained may be arranged on a scale on the basis of how much greater its material content and gain is in relation to its formal and negative moments of freedom from former bondage. for example, to the young man who, released from the pressures of school, enters the free life of a university student, the latter moment is the more acute. whoever exchanges his landed estate for a house in the city is thereby freed from the troubles and anxieties of agricultural pursuits, but this freedom means that he now has to devote himself to the problems and chances that urban property ownership confers. however, if he sells his property for cash then he is really free; the negative factor of the liberation from former burdens predominates, and his newly created situation as a money-owner entails only a minimum of specific directives for the future. the positive factor in the liberation from the constraints of an object has been reduced to its marginal value. money solves the task of realizing human freedom in a purely negative sense. for this reason, the prussian distribution of communal land in the early nineteenth century greatly favoured the growth of a shiftless and rootless stratum of day wage labourers. the natural rights to the use of the woods and meadows were an aid to the standard of living of the poorer peasants for whom in abstracto there was no equivalent. if compensation for the removal of these rights were to be paid in money, then it would soon disappear; if it were to be paid in land, then it would be too small to yield results. thus, such compensations for land were quickly changed to money and they increased rather than reduced the trend towards proletarianization and the loss of the substance of life. an exact parallel with the behaviour of the greek peasant women is, as ethnologists report, the extreme difficulty in buying commodities from native people. as the inclination becomes stronger and money economy expands, increasingly affects those objects which are not meant to be sold but which have the character of permanent possessions and seem to be destined to be tied to the personality rather than to break loose from it in a rash exchange: businesses and factories, works of art and collections, landed property, rights and positions of all kinds. an extraordinary amount of freedom is realized by the fact that, where all this remains the property of one person for an increasingly shorter period, the person changes the specific conditions of such property more quickly and frequently. however, since money with its indeterminateness and its inner lack of direction is the other side of these processes of liberation, they often do not advance beyond this uprooting, and fail to sink new roots. it is quite evident that the value of things none the less exacts recognition over and above their money value if a personally performed task rather than a substance is sold, and if this task possesses an individual character not only in its external realization but also in its content. the following group of phenomena may make this clear. when money and performances are exchanged, the buyer claims only the specific object, the circumscribed performance. the actual performer, on the other hand, requests, or at leasts hopes in many cases, for more than just money. whoever attends a concert is satisfied with their money outlay when they hear the expected programme with the expected perfection. the artist, however, is not satisfied with the money; he also expects applause. in the same way, no subjective offence can be atoned for as if it had not happened, as is the case with external damages. if the guilty person feels he is completely rehabilitated after he has suffered the punishment, then this is the result not of the offence being equal to the punishment, but of an inner transformation which destroys the roots of the sin. that mere punishment alone is incapable of really wiping out the misdeed is indicated by the persistent distrust and degradation to which the sinner is exposed despite having undergone the punishment. i showed earlier that between qualitatively diverse elements there is no direct equivalence as there is between the debit and credit side of a balance sheet. this is most conclusively confirmed by the values that are embodied in the individual personality and it becomes invalid to the extent that these values lose their roots and take on an independent objective character. such values unendingly draw towards money as the absolutely commensurable entity the absolutely because incommensurable personality. the willingness to offer certain objects or performances for a very large amount of money seems justified; but if this cannot be obtained then one would rather make a present of them than take a small amount of money for them. only the latter would be degrading, not the former. for this reason, among refined and sensitive people presents that are meant to pay tribute to a person must make the money value imperceptible. the fleeting perishability of flowers and candy that one may venture to give to a lady of distant acquaintance indicates the elimination of any substantial value. the difference in value between a particular task and its money equivalent is neither always noticeable nor, even when that is true, always expressible, as in the earlier instances of the artist and the physician, the official and the scholar. if the activity is a very unindividual one and the performer an average person, as for example the unskilled worker, then the point of incommensurability is lacking, as is the process of expressing a unique personality recognizable by distinctive qualities in the work. on the other hand, whether the performer receives a compensation for the excess value rests, in principle, on whether his social position allows such ideal acknowledgments; wherever they are absent because of his general subordinate position he is all the more degraded the more personal is the value he is forced to offer for money and only for money. thus, the reason why medieval minstrels were looked down upon was accounted for by the fact that they sang cheerful as well as sad songs upon request and thereby prostituted their personal emotions by taking money instead of honourable recognition. in order to exclude any ideal compensation, it was therefore quite consistent with this fact that they were treated very correctly at least with regard to their economic wage in order to exclude non-material compensations. although the minstrels by and large fared badly, they were treated impartially, particularly with reference to what was due to them. wherever genuine personal values have to be offered for money without any further non-material compensation, one finds that a loosening, almost a loss of substance in individual life, takes place. the feeling that personal values are exchanged in monetary transactions for an inadequate compensation is certainly one of the reasons why money transactions have so often been rejected with horror by proud and high-minded people and why agriculture, its opposite, has been praised as the only proper pursuit. one of the most general sociological phenomena is that the contrast between two elements appears most clearly if they have developed out of a common soil. sects of the same religion hate each other more intensely than totally different religious communities; the antagonism between small neighbouring city-states was always more passionate than that between large countries with their spatially and objectively different spheres of interest; in fact, it has been claimed that the most fervent hatred that exists is that existing among blood relatives. this increase in antagonism out of a background of a community of interests in some cases seems to reach a peak when the common interest or similarity is in the process of increasing. thus there is a danger that the difference and contrast, the preservation of which is in the interest of at least one of the parties, will become blurred. the more a lower and a higher element approach each other, the more vigorously will the latter emphasize the points of difference that still exist and the higher will it value them. yet the amount of its value is still only the same as the value of his labour for which he has acquired it and this thus forms the measure of its exchange value for the product of nature in question. if labour is thus the ultimate authority to which all the value determinations of the object must be referred, then it is inappropriate and a diversion to measure it in terms of an alien object such as money. rather, one must certainly search for a possibility of expressing the pure and immediate unity of labour in a symbol that functions as a means of exchange and measurement, that functions as money. without pronouncing on which of the proposed unifications of value is the sole legitimate one, i wish to assert that the labour theory of value is, at least philosophically, the most interesting theory. the material and intellectual aspects of human beings, their intellect and their will gain a unity in work that remains inaccessible to these potentialities so long as one views them, as it were, in peaceful co-existence. work is the unified stream in which they mix like river sources, extinguishing the diversity of their nature in the similarity of the product. if work was really the sole agent of value, then the latter would thus be submerged in the specific point of unity of our practical nature, and this would have to choose the most adequate expression that it can find in external reality. but the third mental factor that is certainly decisively important for the present production of the chair is indeed removed from potential consumption, and on the basis of the plan of this chair thousands of copies can be produced. the plan itself thereby suffers no depreciation, requires no restoration and certainly does not increase the cost of such chairs even though it constitutes the form-giving, material-intellectual content of each individual chair of this type. if one distinguishes with the necessary precision between the objective-mental content contained in a product and the subjective-mental function that produces the product according to the model of its content, then one can see the relative justification for the assertion that mental activity has no cost. the thought that has been once expressed can no longer be captured again by any amount of power in the world; its content is irrevocably the public property of all who apply the mental energy necessary to recall it. by the same token, however, once it has appeared, it cannot be stolen again by any amount of power in the world. once expressed, the thought remains indivisibly bound up with the personality as a constantly reproducible content in a manner that has no analogy in the economic sphere. in so far as, in terms of its content, the intellectual process possesses this supra-economic importance, and as such constitutes the psychological process, we are obviously concerned here only with the latter, with the question of the role that the mental expenditure of energy plays in the creation of value alongside manual labour. if, none the less, one wishes to undertake this task, then there is no other possibility than to somehow reduce these interests and qualities to that which alone permits an approximate uniformity of distribution. i am well aware that present-day scientific socialism rejects mechanical-communist egalitarianism and merely wishes to establish an equality of conditions of work out of which the diversity of talent, strength and effort would also lead to a diversity of position and satisfaction. despite the present situation in which hereditary descent, class distinction, the accumulation of capital and all the possible chances of economic opportunities produce much greater corresponding distances than do individual differences in activities, this would, in fact, mean not only a basic equalization in every respect but also the equalization of the elements of ownership and satisfaction which seem to me today still to be the genuine effective means of agitation for the masses. if historical materialism is made the scientific demonstration of the socialist doctrine, then what is of concern here, as so often, is the systematic construction of the path that is the reverse of that of the creative movement of thought. therefore socialist theory has not been logically derived from the independently established historical materialism; rather, the practically established socialisticcommunistic tendency must furthermore first produce the only base that is possible for it: it must declare economic interests to be the source and common denominator of all others. once this has taken place, however, the same tendency in the economic sphere must itself then be pursued, and the diversity of its contents reduced to a unity which, over and above all individual achievements, asserts the possibility of an equalization and an externally verifiable equitableness. for the assertion that the value of all valuable objects rests upon their labour costs still does not suffice for this purpose. it would still be possible to unify the qualitative diversity of labour in such a manner that a smaller amount of higher labour formed a similar or higher value to a considerably larger amount of lower labour. in so doing, however, a completely different scale of value would be introduced than the one considered here. the decisive qualities of specialization, intellectuality and complexity would certainly still be produced both with and in labour, but would be realized as a mere attribute of that labour. yet the element of value itself would rest no longer upon labour as labour but upon the order of qualities constructed according to a quite independent principle for which labour as such, which is the general element of all labour qualities, would still be only the irrelevant agent. equally, a consistent labour theory must be able to sustain the view that all the unambiguously experienced and indisputable value distinctions between two achievements that appear both as labour-extensive and -intensive only means, in the last instance, that more labour is concentrated in the one than in the other, that only a first and fleeting glance would take them to be the same amounts of labour, but that a deeper penetrating view actually reveals more or less labour as the basis of their greater or lesser value. without considering such coincidences that result from the complexities of historical life, it would be not at all possible to maintain a single basic connection in social matters. it seems to me that, by and large, one can maintain the view that the diverse valuation of qualities of performance embodying the same subjective labour effort none the less expresses the diversity of amounts of labour that are contained in the particular achievements in a mediated form. in this manner, the gain for the theoretical unification of economic values, from which the labour theory commences, is provisionally secured. mental labour would then be dealt with on the same footing as manual labour, and its products would enter into a merely quantitative balancing of value with those of the latter. this, of course, is a scientific utopia which can only prove that the reduction of all scientifically calculable labour to manual labour does not itself need to contain, even for a by no means dogmaticmaterialistic standpoint, the basic absurdity with which the dualism of intellectuality and corporality appears to strike this attempt. since this relationship is repeated only in these two categories of labour, this results in an infinite series out of which mental labour can certainly never vanish but in which it is pushed back further and further. thus the means of subsistence of the highest categories of labour also rests upon a series of labour activities in which the mental admixture of each member is borne by a member of purely physical value, so that each, at the last stage, approaches the marginal value of zero. it may also be imagined that, in principle, all external pre-conditions for mental labour are expressible in quantities of manual labour. if the old theory of cost value were recognized as being valid, then the value of mental labour, in so far as it equals the costs of its production, would be the same value as certain manual activities. perhaps this theory is tenable in a modified form. yet the assumption that the level of value of mental activity should relate proportionally to the value of the means of subsistence appears to be completely paradoxical, even meaningless. none the less, it pays to seek out the point at which reality at least approximates to it because this reaches down into the internal and cultural relationships of intellectual values to their economic preconditions and equivalents. we must surely imagine that, as the focal point of organic development, a very large amount of energy lies stored up in the brain. the brain is certainly capable of giving out a large amount of energy which, among other things, explains the astonishing efficiency of weaker muscles which can be set in motion by mental impulses. the great exhaustion of the whole organism after intellectual labours or changes also indicates that mental activity, viewed from the standpoint of its physical correlate, consumes a very large amount of organic energy. the restoration of this energy is achieved not only through a mere increase in the level of the subsistence that the manual worker requires, since the capacity of the body is quite considerably restricted with regard to the amount of nourishment it can consume, and for predominantly mental labour this is reduced rather than increased. therefore the restoration of energy, just like the necessary nervous stimulation of mental labour, can as a rule be achieved only through a concentration, refinement and individual adaptation of the means of life and the general conditions of life. two culturally and historically significant elements are important here. our daily means of existence were selected and developed in a period in which the common life conditions differed sharply from the present ones for intellectual strata in which manual labour and fresh air predominated over nervous tension and a sedentary mode of life. the countless direct and indirect digestive illnesses on the one hand, the hasty search for concentrated and easily assimilable foodstuffs on the other, indicate that the adaptation between our bodily constitution and our means of nourishment has broken down to a considerable extent. from this very general observation it is obvious how justified it is for people with very different occupations to require different nourishment and that it is not merely a matter of gastronomy but of the health of the people for the most highly developed worker to secure the means for an above-normal, specialized diet that is also determined by personal needs. more important, however, and at the same time more concealed, is the fact that mental labour extends much more into the whole of life and is surrounded by a much wider periphery of mediated relationships than is manual labour. this fact, which establishes an irreconcilable disharmony between the ideals of quality and justice and the maximization of tasks, is still by no means sufficiently taken into account. the diversity of our physicalmental structures, the relationships between efficient and restricting energies, the interaction between the intellect and the nature of the will results in the fact that the achievement, as a product of the personality and its living conditions, finds a highly inconsistent factor in the former, so that, in order to produce the same result, the other factor must also suffer particularly large variations. and it certainly seems as if these natural differences in relation to the conditions of realization of their inner possibilities are more considerable the higher, the more complex and the more intellectual is the sphere of achievement, the people who possess only muscle power for a specific work activity will require for its realization roughly the same nourishment and general standard of life. finally, there is a third standpoint from which the reduction of all labour value to the value of manual labour reveals its crude and plebeian character. if we look more closely upon what it is that really makes physical labour valid as value and expenditure, then it follows that this is certainly not a pure physical achievement of strength. by this i do not mean what has already been referred to, namely, that as such this would be quite useless for human purposes without a certain intellectual guidance. from this standpoint, however, the mental element remains a mere value admixture and the genuine value could still reside in the purely physical except that, in order to receive the necessary guidance, it would require this additional element. rather, i mean that physical labour acquires its whole tone of value and valuableness only through the expenditure of mental energy embodied in it. however inessential and unconnected an object of possession that does not extend into a psychic emotion may be to us, it would be the suitable action for us if it did not arise out of an internally felt state of affairs whose aversion and sense of sacrifice alone bore within itself the demand for a remuneration and its measure. with reference to value, one can thus say that physical labour is mental labour. an exception to this could only be those forms of work that man accomplishes as a competitor to the machine or animals. for although these, like all others, conduct themselves in relation to internal exertion and the mental expenditure of energy, they none the less have no reason to improve in any way upon this internal achievement, since the only external effect that is important to them is also attainable through a purely physical potentiality, and cost-conscious production will never be rewarded so long as a cheaper one is possible. when we extend this relationship to the world to our practical question of whether to compensate the performance of sub-human energies only through the counter-performance of human achievement, then the basic borderline becomes visible between that human work whose reward rests upon its mental element and that which, because of the similarity of its result with purely external-mechanical work, appears to reject this basis for its reward. one may therefore assert in very general terms that, from the standpoint of the value to be compensated, the distinction between mental and manual labour is not one between mental and material nature; that rather the reward is ultimately required in the latter case only for the internal aspect of work, for the aversion to exertion, for the conscription of will power. of course, this intellectuality, which is, as it were, the thing-in-itself behind the appearance of work and which forms its interior value, is not really intellectual but resides in emotion and the will. it follows from this that it is not co-ordinated with mental labour but rather is its basis. these comments not only prove that the equivalent for work is exclusively related to the amount of muscular activity but also eliminate certain considerations that are commonly brought against this connection. none the is encountered which seems to me to be insurmountable. this has its origin in the quite trivial objection that valueless, superfluous work also exists. for the refutation, according to which one naturally subsumes under labour as the fundamental value only efficient work justified through its result, contains an admission that is fatal for the whole theory. that is, if valuable and valueless labour exist, then undoubtedly intermediate stages, amounts of labour undertaken also exist which contain some but not distinct elements of purpose and value. thus, the value of a product which, it is presupposed, is determined by the labour invested in it is greater or smaller according to the efficiency of this labour. this means, however, that the value of labour is measured not by its amount but by the utility of its result! however much one must recognize the tendency for labour money to place money back into a closer relationship to personal values, each consequence none the less shows how closely the hostility to this is bound up with its essence. furthermore, since money measures all objects with merciless objectivity, and since its standard of value so measured determines their relationship, a web of objective and personal aspects of life emerges which is similar to the natural cosmos with its continuous cohesion and strict causality. this web is held together by the all-pervasive money value, just as nature is held together by the energy that gives life to everything. like money, energy appears in innumerable forms, but the uniformity of its very nature and the possibility of transforming any specific form into any other results in a relationship between all of them and makes each of them a condition of any other. just as every emotional accentuation has disappeared from the interpretation of natural processes and has been replaced by an objective intelligence, so the objects and relationships of our practical world, inasmuch as they form increasingly interconnected series, exclude the interference of emotions. they become merely objects of intelligence and appear only at the teleological terminal points. the growing transformation of all elements of life into means, the mutual connection of sequences that previously terminated in autonomous purposes with a complex of relative elements, is not only the practical counterpart of the growing causal knowledge of nature and the transformation of its absolutes into relativities. rather, since the whole structure of means is one of a causal connection viewed from the front, the practical world too increasingly becomes a problem for the intelligence. to put it more precisely, the conceivable elements of action become objectively and subjectively calculable rational relationships and in so doing progressively eliminate the emotional reactions and decisions which only attach themselves to the turning points of life, to the final purposes. yet this kind of work, even among the lowest labourers, retains a specific colouring without which the recent attempts in england to organize such labour into trades unions would not have been possible. those people who pursue the most divergent opportunities to make money lack that predetermined distinctiveness in their lives to a much higher degree than the banker, for whom money is not only the final purpose but also the raw material of his activity, and as such can in time give rise to specific, prescribed directives, particular constellations of interests, and traits of a specific professional character. but in those problematical means of livelihood the routes to the ultimate goal of money have strayed from any actual unity or affinity. there is only a minimum of resistance to the levelling process which money as a goal exerts on various activities and interests. the determination and colouring that might affect the personality through his economic activity disappears. the intensity of modern economic conflicts in which no mercy is shown is only an apparent counter-instance of such features of the money economy since these conflicts are unleashed by direct interest in money itself. for it is not only that they take place in an objective sphere in which the importance of the person lies not only in his character but also in his embodiment of a particular objective economic potential, and where the deadly antagonistic competitor of today is the cartel ally of tomorrow. rather, what is of primary importance is that the rules established within one sphere may be totally different from those considered valid outside that sphere but which are none the less influenced by them. a religion, for instance, can preach the gospel of peace to its members and still be very belligerent and cruel towards heretics and towards neighbouring spheres of life. similarly, a person may provoke in another emotions and thoughts that are completely antithetical to his own philosophy so that he gives what he himself does not possess. this is not a trait that is added to intelligence; rather it is the very essence of intelligence itself. it is the only way open to man of acquiring a relationship to things that is not determined by the arbitrariness of the subject. even if we presuppose that the whole of objective reality is determined by the functions of our mind, we still identify as intelligence those functions of our mind through which reality appears to us as objective in the specific sense of the word, regardless of how much intelligence itself may also be enlivened and directed by other forces. clearly this is an extreme instance of the objective treatment of practical affairs. what appear to be natural subjective impulses are completely eliminated in favour of a practice concerned only with the objective importance of the elements. the differentiation of behaviour is governed only by its objective expediency, not by personal passion. but this nation was also fully attuned to intellectuality. it was at all times superior to others in strict logic, in the meditative profundity of its interpretation of the world, even in the austere intellectuality of both its most gigantic fantasies and its highest ethical ideals; yet it was inferior to many in radiating warmth of sentiments and in will power. it became a mere spectator and a logical designer of the course of the world, but this rested ultimately upon emotional decisions, upon the immensity of suffering out of which grew a metaphysical-religious sense of its cosmic necessity, because the individual cannot cope with it, either in the emotional sphere or by diverting it into a vigorous life practice. this explanation of the correlation between intellectuality and the money economy, based on the objectivity and indeterminacy of character that was common to both, may be seriously challenged with a powerful counterargument. alongside the impersonal objectivity inherent in the content of intelligence there exists an extremely close relationship between intelligence and individuality and the whole principle of individualism. money, for its part, no matter how much it translates impulsive-subjective modes of behaviour into supra-personal and objective normative modes, is none the less the breeding ground for economic individualism and egoism. here we obviously confront the ambiguities and complexities of concepts that must be clearly distinguished in order to understand the style of life that is designated by them. the dual role which both the intellect and money play becomes intelligible if one distinguishes their essentially objective content from their function or, in other words, from the uses to which they are put. certain emotions, for example involved in intimate personal relationships, would completely lose their significance and value if others were entitled to share them. it is also essential for certain objectives of the will that other people are excluded from both pursuing them as well as gaining them. it has been rightly suggested that theoretical notions, on the other hand, are like a torch whose light does not become dimmer by igniting innumerable others from it. inasmuch as their potential boundless dissemination has no influence whatsoever upon their importance, they elude private ownership more than any other contents of life. finally, they present themselves in a way that, in principle, excludes all individual contingencies from the assimilation of their content. hence the rationalism of the eighteenth century, which culminated in revolution, is bound up with a strict individualism and only the opposition to rationalism from herder to the romantics has, in acknowledging the supra-individual emotional potential of life, thereby also recognized the supra-individual collectivities as unities and historical realities. the universality of intellectuality, in that it is valid for each individual intellect, brings about an atomization of society. by means of the intellect and viewed from its standpoint, everyone seems to be an enclosed self-sufficient element alongside every other, without this abstract universality somehow being resolved into the concrete universality in which the individual person only forms a unity in combination with others. finally, the inner accessibility and reflectiveness of theoretical knowledge which cannot basically be withheld from anybody, as can certain emotions and volitions, has a consequence that directly offsets its practical results. in the first place, it is precisely because of their general accessibility that factors quite independent of personal capacities decide on the factual utilization of knowledge. this extension of the power of money that is incomparable with that of any other cultural factor, and which gives equal rights to the most contradictory tendencies in life, is manifested here as the condensation of the purely formal cultural energy that can be applied to any content in order to strengthen it and to bring about its increasingly purer representation. i therefore propose to emphasize only some specific analogies with intellectuality in terms of its content, to the effect that the impersonality and universal validity of its abstract objective nature, at least with reference to its function and use, supports egoism and differentiation. the rational and logical character that is displayed by egoism also adheres to the full and ruthless exploitation of the possession of money. earlier, we pointed to the distinctive feature of money compared with other forms of property, namely that it does not point to any specific use and therefore implies no inhibition as to its use. in the same manner, the forms of religion transcend all temporal particularity to the level of the absolute and universal and, in so doing, secure a relationship to what is most common to all individuals and to what unites them in the human world. by their all-embracing unity, the forms of religion release us from our merely individual attributes, by relating them back to the basic traits that are felt to be the common roots of everything human. the same is true of morality as conceived by kant. the mode of action that may be logically generalized without contradicting itself should also be the moral law for everyone regardless of his identity. the criterion operating here is that one might conceive of the practical maxim as natural law, such that its conceptual, objective universality establishes the universality for all subjects, for whom it becomes a moral imperative. in contrast to these forms, modern life in other spheres seems rather to increase the tension between objective universality of content and universality of personal relationships. i want to mention a final trait in the style of contemporary life whose rationalistic character clearly betrays the influence of money. by and large, one may characterize the intellectual functions that are used at present in coping with the world and in regulating both individual and social relations as calculative functions. their cognitive ideal is to conceive of the world as a huge arithmetical problem, to conceive events and the qualitative distinction of things as a system of numbers. kant believed that natural philosophy was scientific only to the extent that mathematics could be applied in it. yet it is not only the physical world that has to be intellectually conquered by measuring and weighing; for pessimism as well as optimism wishes to establish the value of life by balancing pleasure and pain and its ideal is the quantitative calculation of both factors. the frequent determination of public life through majority votes is a manifestation of the same trend. this psychological feature of our times which stands in such a decisive contrast to the more impulsive, emotionally determined character of earlier epochs seems to me to stand in a close causal relationship to the money economy. the money economy enforces the necessity of continuous mathematical operations in our daily transactions. the lives of many people are absorbed by such evaluating, weighing, calculating and reducing of qualitative values to quantitative ones. gauging values in terms of money has taught us to determine and specify values down to the last farthing and has thus enforced a much greater precision in the comparison of various contents of life. where objects are conceived in their direct relationship to other objects, that is where they cannot be reduced to the common denominator of money, a much more spontaneous evaluation, a comparison of one unit against another, is to be found. like the determination of abstract value by money, the determination of abstract time by clocks provides a system for the most detailed and definite arrangements and measurements that imparts an otherwise unattainable transparency and calculability to the contents of life, at least as regards their practical management. the calculating intellectuality embodied in these forms may in its turn derive from them some of the energy through which intellectuality controls modern life. all these relationships are brought into focus by the negative example of those types of thinkers who are most strongly and fiercely opposed to the economic interpretation of human affairs: goethe, carlyle and nietzsche on the one hand are fundamentally anti-intellectual and on the other completely reject that mathematically exact interpretation of nature which we recognized as the theoretical counterpart to the institution of money. if we define culture as the refinement, as the intellectualized forms of life, the accomplishment of mental and practical labour, then we place these values in a context in which they do not automatically belong by virtue of their own objective significance. they become manifestations of culture to us inasmuch as we interpret them as intensified displays of natural vitality and potential, intensified beyond the level of development, fullness and differentiation that would be achieved by their mere nature. a natural energy or allusion, which is necessary only in order that it may be surpassed by actual development, forms the presupposition for the concept of culture. from the standpoint of culture, the values of life are civilized nature; they do not have here the isolated significance that is measured from above, as it were, by the ideals of happiness, intelligence and beauty. the cultural process, as the supra-natural growth of the energies of th1ings, is the manifestation or embodiment of the identical growth of our energies. the borderline at which the development of specific life-content passes from its natural form into its cultural form is indistinct and is subject to controversy. but this is merely one of the most universal difficulties of thought. the categories under which specific phenomena are subsumed in order to incorporate them into knowledge, its norms and relationships, are marked off from each other and often gain their meaning only from this contrast. these concepts form sequences with discontinuous levels. yet the particulars that are supposed to be covered by these concepts usually cannot be located with the same degree of certainty. rather, their quantitative characteristics often determine whether they belong to the one or the other concept so that, because of the continuity of everything quantitative and the ever-possible intermediate position between two entities, each of which corresponds to a specific category, the specific phenomenon may well be placed sometimes with one, sometimes with the other. thus there seems to be an indeterminacy between them, even a mixture of concepts which, according to their actual meaning, exclude one another. the fundamental certainty of the demarcation between nature and culture, that the one starts where the other leaves off, is just as little affected by the uncertainty as to where to locate individual phenomena as are the concepts of day and night which do not merge into one another because dawn and dusk may sometimes be attributed to the one, sometimes to the other. in terms of content, the scope of objects of conversation has been widened during that time through advances in theory and practice, yet, none the less, it seems that conversation, both social as well as intimate and in the exchange of letters, is now more superficial, less interesting and less serious than at the end of the eighteenth century. the fact that machinery has become so much more sophisticated than the worker is part of this same process. how many workers are there today, even within large-scale industry, who are able to understand the machine with which they work, that is the mental effort invested in it? the same applies to military culture. the work of the individual soldier has essentially remained the same for a long time, and in some respects has even been reduced through modern methods of warfare. in contrast, not only the material instruments but, above all, the completely impersonal organization of the army have become extremely sophisticated and a real triumph of objective culture. this discrepancy seems to widen steadily. every day and from all sides, the wealth of objective culture increases, but the individual mind can enrich the forms and contents of its own development only by distancing itself still further from that culture and developing its own at a much slower pace. our practical existence, though inadequate and fragmentary, gains a certain significance and coherence, as it were, by partaking in the realization of a totality. our actions, even our total being, beautiful or ugly, right or wrong, great or petty, seem to be drawn from a wealth of possibilities such that, at every moment, they relate to its ideally determined content just as the concrete object relates to the concept that expresses its immanent law and its logical essence without the significance of this content thereby being dependent upon whether, how and how often it is realized. we cannot conceive of cognition in any other way except as the realization in our consciousness of those conceptions which were, so to say, waiting to be conceived at that particular point in question. the unswerving conclusion that we derived from certain facts of knowledge, that other facts of knowledge also have to be assumed, is the accidental cause that illustrates the nature of our comprehension: every single piece of knowledge means becoming aware of something that is already valid and established within the objectively determined context of the contents of knowledge. finally, from the psychological point of view, this is associated with the theory according to which everything held to be true is a certain feeling which accompanies a mental image; what we call proof is nothing other than the establishment of a psychological constellation which gives rise to such a feeling. no sense perception or logical derivations can directly assure us of a reality. rather, they are only the conditions that evoke the supra-theoretical feeling of affirmation, of agreement or whatever one may call this rather indescribable sense of reality. this general and basic relationship is paralleled to a lesser extent in the relationship between the objectified mind and culture, and the individual. just as, from an epistemological standpoint, we draw our life-contents from a realm of objectively valid entities, so, viewed historically, we draw the major part of them from the stock of accumulated mental labour of the species. here too we find preformed contents that are ready to be realized by individual minds but yet preserve their determinateness which does not coincide with that of a material object. for even where the mind is tied to matter, as in tools, works of art and books, it is never identical with that part of them that is perceptible to our senses. the mind lives in them in a hardly definable potential form which the individual consciousness is able to actualize. objective culture is the historical presentation or more or less perfect condensation of an objectively valid truth which is reproduced by our cognition. if we can say that the law of gravity was valid before newton formulated it, then the law itself does not rest in the substance of matter. instead, it only illustrates the manner in which the relations of matter present themselves to a specifically organized mind, and the validity of the law is independent of the fact that matter exists in reality. if this is the case then the law resides neither in objective things themselves nor in the subjective mind, but in that sphere of the objective spirit which, stage by stage, is condensed into reality by our sense of truth. once this has been accomplished by newton with respect to the law in question, that law has been incorporated into the objective historical mind, and its ideal significance within that mind is now, in its turn, basically independent of its reproduction by particular individuals. if we wish to confine the cause and its present magnitude in a single concept, then it is that of the division of labour, in terms of its importance within production as well as consumption. with regard to production, it has been emphasized often enough that the product is completed at the expense of the development of the producer. the increase in psychophysical energies and skills, which is the result of specialized activity, is of little value for the total personality, which often even becomes stunted because of the diversion of energies that are indispensable for the harmonious growth of the self. in other cases, it develops as if cut off from the core of the personality, as a province with unlimited autonomy whose fruits do not flow back to the centre. experience seems to show that the inner wholeness of the self basically evolves out of interaction with the uniformity and the completion of our life task. this relationship is equally well illustrated by its extreme opposite, the work of art. the nature of the art work completely resists a subdivision of labour among a number of workers, none of whom on his own achieves a whole unity. the work of art, of all the works of man, is the most perfectly autonomous unity, a self-sufficient totality, even more so than the state. for the state, though it may be autonomous under specific circumstances, does not envelop all its elements so completely that each may not lead a separate life with its own interests: only one part of our personality is interwoven with the state, while the other parts may revolve around other centres. art, however, does not grant significance to any of the elements within the context in which they are set; the individual work of art destroys the manifold meanings of words and of tones, of colours and of forms in order to preserve in our consciousness only such aspects as are relevant to the work. the more completely an entity composed of subjective components absorbs the parts, and the more the character of each part serves only as a part of the whole, then the more objective is that whole and the more is its life independent of the subjects who produced it. generally speaking, a broadening of consumption corresponds the specialization of production. even the most intellectually and occupationally specialized people today read the newspaper and thereby indulge in a more extensive mental consumption than was possible a hundred years ago, for even the most versatile and widely interested person. the broadening of consumption, however, is dependent upon the growth of objective culture, since the more objective and impersonal an object is the better it is suited to more people. the fact that labour now shares the same character, mode of valuation and fate with all other commodities signifies that work has become something objectively separate from the worker, something that he not only no longer is, but also no longer has. for as soon as his potential labour power is transposed into actual work, only its money equivalent belongs to him whereas the work itself belongs to someone else or, more accurately, to an objective organization of labour. the process by which labour becomes a commodity is thus only one side of the far-reaching process of differentiation by which specific contents of the personality are detached in order for them to confront the personality as objects with an independent character and dynamics. finally, the result of this fate of the means of production and labour power is also exhibited in its product. the fact that the product of labour in the capitalist era is an object with a decidedly autonomous character, with its own laws of motion and a character alien to the producing subject, is most forcefully illustrated where the worker is compelled to buy his own product if he wishes to have it. this general pattern of development is valid far beyond the situation of the wage-labourer. the immense division of labour in science, for instance, results in a situation in which only very few scholars are able to procure for themselves the prerequisites for their work; innumerable facts and methods have simply to be accepted from outside as objective materials, as the intellectual property of others that is to be used for further research. i recall that in the sphere of technology even at the beginning of the nineteenth century, when the most spectacular inventions in textile and iron industries followed one upon the other, the inventors not only had to produce the new machines by their own hands and without the help of other machines, but most of the time they had to devise and produce the necessary tools for doing so. in a broader sense, and in any case in the sense implied here, the present situation in science can be designated as a separation of the worker from his means of production. for in the actual process of scientific investigation the objective material of the producer is certainly separated from the subjective process of his work. the less differentiated the scientific process was, the more the scholar had to work out the presuppositions and materials for his work himself and the less apparent was the contrast between his subjective achievement and a whole world of objectively given scientific facts. the more superior the position of individuals, both socially and intellectually, the more their existence is based on the work of those lower down the scale, in exchange not for their work but for money. this notion, however, is totally wrong nowadays since the needs of the subordinate masses are satisfied by large enterprises which have engaged countless scientific, technical and managerial energies of the upper strata in their service. the eminent chemist who reflects in his laboratory upon the description of dyed colours is working for the peasant woman who buys the most colourful scarf at the haberdasher; if the wholesale merchant, through global speculations, imports american grain to germany, then he is the servant of the poorest proletarian; a cotton mill that employs people of the highest intelligence is dependent on customers in the lowest social strata. there are innumerable examples today of this feed-back of services, whereby the lower classes purchase the labour products of the higher classes; they affect our whole culture. this phenomenon is possible only through the objectification of production which has set it apart from the producing and the consuming individual and has thus placed production above social and other differences. this commissioning of the services of the highest cultural producers by the lowest consumers means that there is no relationship between them, but rather that an object has been thrust between them. on the one side of this object one group works on it while others on the other side consume it; the object separates them both and at the same time establishes a connection between them. the basic reason for this is obviously the division of labour: the techniques of production are so specialized that the handling of its different parts is transferred not only to more but also to increasingly more diverse people until the point is reached at which one part of the work on the humblest necessities is performed by individuals of the highest rank. the more differentiated these means are, the more they are composed of a multitude of specialized parts, the less is the worker able to express his personality through them, and the less visible is his personal contribution to the product. the tools that the artist uses are relatively undifferentiated and thus afford the personality the widest scope for releasing all its capacities. they do not confront the artist as does the industrial machine, whose specialized complexity itself possesses a form of personal solidity and cohesiveness so that the worker is unable to imbue it with his personality as he can with other less elaborate tools. the tools of the sculptor have not changed for thousands of years in their total lack of specialization. wherever the artistic tools have changed decisively, as with the piano, its character too has become quite objective. it has become much too autonomous and has set a more rigid limit to the expression of subjectivity than has, for instance, the violin, which is technically much less differentiated. the automatic character of modern machinery is the result of a highly advanced breakdown and specialization of materials and energies, akin to the character of a highly developed state administration which can evolve only on the basis of an elaborate division of labour among its functionaries. in that the machine becomes a totality and carries out a growing proportion of the work itself, it confronts the worker as an autonomous power, just as he too is no longer an individual personality but merely someone who carries out an objectively prescribed task. one has only to compare the worker in a shoe factory with the craft shoemaker in order to see to what extent the specialization of tools paralyses the effectiveness of personal qualities, whether superior or inferior, and allows both object and subject to develop as basically independent entities. whereas the undifferentiated tool is merely a prolongation of the arm, the specialized tool is elevated to the pure category of an object. we experience their independence as an antagonistic force only when we are at their service. just as freedom is not something negative but rather is the positive extension of the self into the objects that yield to it, so, conversely, our freedom is crippled if we deal with objects that our ego cannot assimilate. the sense of being oppressed by the externalities of modern life is not only the consequence but also the cause of the fact that they confront us as autonomous objects. what is distressing is that we are basically indifferent to those numerous objects that swarm around us, and this is for reasons specific to a money economy: their impersonal origin and easy replaceability. the fact that large industrial concerns are the breeding ground for socialist ideas is due not only to the social conditions of their workers, but also to the objective quality of their products. the money equivalent is now exchanged against the commodity by a mechanical device. at another level, the same principle is also at work in the five cents store and in similar stores where the psycho-economic process runs not from the commodity to the price, but from the price to the commodity. the a priori equivalence of prices for all commodities will eliminate the numerous deliberations and examinations of the buyer, the numerous efforts and elucidations of the seller, so that the economic transaction will very quickly and indifferently pass through its personal channels. this concurrent differentiation has the same effect as consecutive differentiation. changes in fashion disrupt that inner process of acquisition and assimilation between subject and object which usually does not tolerate a discrepancy between the two. fashion is one of those social forms which combines, to a particular degree, the attraction of differentiation and change with that of similarity and conformity. every fashion is essentially the fashion of a social class; that is, it always indicates a social stratum which uses similarity of appearance to assert both its own inner unity and its outward differentiation from other social strata. as soon as the lower strata attempt to imitate the upper strata and adopt their fashion, the latter create a new one. wherever fashions have existed they have sought to express social differences. yet the social changes of the last hundred years have accelerated the pace of changes in fashion, on the one hand through the weakening of class barriers and frequent upward social mobility of individuals and sometimes even of whole groups to a higher stratum, and on the other through the predominance of the third estate. the first factor makes very frequent changes of fashion necessary on the part of leading strata because imitation by the lower strata rapidly robs fashions of their meaning and attraction. the second factor comes into operation because the middle class and the urban population are, in contrast to the conservatism of the highest strata and the peasantry, the groups in which there is great variability. insecure classes and individuals, pressing for change, find in fashion, in the changing and contrasting forms of life, a pace that mirrors their own psychological movements. only where a variety of given styles exists will one detach itself from its content so that its independence and specific significance gives us the freedom to choose between the one or the other. through the differentiation of styles each individual style, and thus style in general, becomes something objective whose validity is independent of human subjects and their interests, activities, approval or disapproval. the fact that the entire visible environment of our cultural life has disintegrated into a plurality of styles dissolves that original relationship to style where subject and object are not yet separated. instead, we are confronted with a world of expressive possibilities each developed according to their own norms, with a host of forms within which to express life as a whole. thus these forms on the one side, and our subjectivity on the other, are like two parties between whom a purely fortuitous relationship of contacts, harmonies and disharmonies prevails. broadly speaking, this is the orbit in which the major process of objectification of modern culture is carried out through the division of labour and specialization in both its personal and objective sense. the total picture is composed of all these phenomena, in which the cultural content becomes an increasingly conscious objective mind in relation not only to recipients but also to producers. to the extent to which this objectification increases, the strange phenomenon from which we started our investigation becomes more comprehensible, namely that the cultural growth of the individual can lag considerably behind the cultural growth of tangible as well as functional and intellectual objects. after establishing the possibility that the evolution of the objective mind may outpace the subjective mind but that the reverse of this may also occur, i wish to return now to the significance of the division of labour for the realization of the former case. stated briefly, the twofold possibility arises in the following manner. the fact that the objectified mind, incorporated in all kinds of production, is superior to the single individual is due to the complexities of the mode of production which presupposes an extremely large number of historical and material factors, forerunners and collaborators. as a result, the product may contain energies, qualities and additional potentialities that lie quite outside the grasp of the individual producer. this is particularly common in specifically modern technology as a result of the division of labour. as long as the product was manufactured by a single producer or by a relatively unspecialized form of co-operation, the content of mind and power objectified in the product could not greatly exceed those of the individuals involved. only a sophisticated division of labour imbues the individual product with energies derived from a very large number of individuals, so that the product, viewed as a unity and compared with single individuals, is bound to be superior in many different respects. this accumulation of quality and excellence in the object that forms their synthesis is unlimited, whereas the growth of individuals in any period of time and by their very nature has quite definite natural limits. yet although the fact that the objective product absorbs many qualities of a number of persons and provides supreme possibilities for development, it none the less forfeits that perfection which can only be the result of the synthesis of energies of a single human subject. the state, especially the modern state, is the clearest illustration of this. for however much they may surpass the individual intellect in objective intellectual content and evolutionary potential, we none the less conceive of them in the same way as we do a mere inanimate and soulless mechanism to the extent that differentiation and the number of co-operating factors increase. the difference between mind and soul comes to the fore here. mind is the objective content of what the soul becomes aware of as a living function. the soul is, as it were, the form that the mind, that is the logical-conceptual content of thought, assumes for our subjectivity, as our subjectivity. the mind in this sense, therefore, is not tied to the formation of a unity without which no soul exists. it is as if the mental contents are somehow dispersed in their existence and only the soul assembles them as a unity, almost as inorganic matter is incorporated into an organism and the unity of its life. herein lies the greatness as well as the limitation of the soul in relation to the individual contents of consciousness when looked at in terms of their independent validity and objective significance. plato depicted the realm of ideas in glowing perfection and complete self-contentedness. these ideas are nothing other than the objective contents of thought detached from all the arbitrariness of their actual representation, and so the soul of man with its pale, vague and chimerical reflection of things of true significance appeared to him imperfect, conditioned and obscure. yet for us such graphic clarity and logical determination of form are not the only evaluative standards for ideals and realities. for us personal unity, towards which the consciousness of the objective intellectual meaning of things also leads, is of supreme value. only here does that friction that is life and strength develop; only here do those mysterious strands of warmth of feeling develop that have no place and no sympathy in the clear perfection of purely objectively determined ideas. the relationship between objectified mind and its evolution to the subjective mind is of extreme importance to every cultural community and especially with reference to its style of life. for if the importance of style lies in its ability to express any number and variety of contents in related forms, then the relationship between objective and subjective mind with reference to quantity, size and pace of development can be the same, even for quite different contents of the cultural mind. the general way of living, the framework that the social culture offers to individual impulses, is circumscribed by the following questions: is the inner life of the individual close to or estranged from the objective cultural evolution of his age? does the individual experience this evolution, of which he has only a marginal comprehension, as superior, or does he consider his personal value to be higher than that of all reified mind? if the present form of this relationship is sustained by the division of labour, then it is also an offshoot of the money economy; first, because the splitting up of the productive process into a large number of partial operations requires an organization that functions with absolute precision and reliability which, since the end of slave labour, has only been possible if workers are paid in money. any other mediated relationship between employer and worker would entail incalculable elements, partly because payment in kind cannot be so easily provided and determined and partly because only the pure money relationship possesses the exclusively objective, automatic character that is the prerequisite for highly specialized and complex organizations; second, because the essential reason for the emergence of money becomes more and more pressing as production becomes more specialized. for it is the essence of economic transactions that one person gives up what another person desires, provided this other person acts in the same manner. the moral rule that one should do unto others as one would have done unto oneself finds the clearest example of its formal realization in the economy. if, for instance, a producer finds a purchaser for the object a which he wishes to exchange, then it is often the case that object b, which the purchaser wishes to offer in return, is not what the producer desires. that such a difference in the demand of two persons does not always coincide with the difference in the products they have to offer requires, as is well known, the intervention of a means of exchange. thus, if the owners of a and b are unable to agree on a direct exchange, one can exchange a for money with which he can obtain the c that he desires, and the owner of b can procure the money to buy a by means of a similar transaction with a third party. by means of this connection, the style of life too, in so far as it is dependent on the relationship between objective and subjective culture, is tied up with money transactions. the nature of this relationship is clearly revealed by the fact that money transactions represent the preponderance of objective over subjective mind, as well as the reverse, independent enhancement and autonomous development of the subjective mind. the superior power of the culture of objects over the culture of individuals is the result of the unity and autonomous self-sufficiency that the objective culture has accomplished in modern times. production, with its technology and its achievements, seems to be a cosmos with definite and, as it were, logical determinations and developments which confront the individual in the same way as fate confronts the instability and irregularity of our will. this formal autonomy, this inner compulsion, which unifies cultural contents into a mirror-image of the natural context, can be realized only through money. money, by and large, is most influential in those parts of our life whose style is determined by the preponderance of objective over subjective culture. that it may also support its converse places the nature and extent of its historical power in the clearest light. in some respects, money may be compared to language, which also lends itself to the most divergent directions of thought and feeling. money belongs to those forces whose peculiarity lies in a lack of peculiarity, but which, none the less, may colour life very differently because their mere formal, functional and quantitative nature is confronted with qualitatively determined contents and directions of life, and induces them to generate qualitatively new formations. the significance of money for the style of life is not negated but enhanced, not refuted but demonstrated by the fact that it favours both possible relations between the objective and the subjective mind. thus it is that the object as a whole is realized by the sum of its qualities that it presents to us only by our lending it the unified form of our ego. in so doing, we basically experience how a wealth of determinations and fates may be attached to a fixed entity. the same may be true, as has often been suggested, of energy and the causality of external objects: we project the feelings of physio-psychic tension, impulses, wilful action, on to the objects, and if we place these interpretative categories behind their immediate perceptibility, then we orientate ourselves towards them according to the emotional experiences of our inner nature. perhaps this is how one comes across the opposite interrelationship as soon as one hits the substantiality of a deeper stratum below that primary symbolization of the inner life. if we characterize a mental experience as an association of conceptions, then this knowledge is achieved according to spatial categories. the mental and physical aspects of existence are all the more open to this mutual symbolizing interpretation the simpler they are. in the simple processes of association, fusion and reproduction of notions we can adhere to the idea of a general lawfulness of form that calls for an analogous response from both the inner and the outer world and thus makes the one the suitable representative of the other. characterization in terms of analogies of spatial vividness becomes more difficult for more complicated and distinctive mental forms. it becomes more dependent upon its applicability to a large number of instances, in order not to appear arbitrary and playful and in order to possess a secure, though only symbolic, relationship to psychological reality. starting out from itself, this psychological reality will find the comprehension of things, the interpretation of their own meaning and significance, all the more difficult and uncertain the more specialized or complex are the processes on both sides. from among the phenomena that, from this standpoint, form a unified series, i first wish to emphasize that of art. the inner significance of artistic styles can be interpreted as a result of the differences in distance that they produce between ourselves and objects. all art changes the field of vision in which we originally and naturally place ourselves in relation to reality. on the one hand, art brings us closer to reality; it places us in a more immediate relationship to its distinctive and innermost meaning; behind the cold strangeness of the external world it reveals to us the spirituality of existence through which it is related and made intelligible to us. in addition, however, all art brings about a distancing from the immediacy of things; it allows the concreteness of stimuli to recede and stretches a veil between us and them just like the fine bluish haze that envelops distant mountains. there are equally strong attractions on both sides of this duality of effects. yet this inner tendency that the symbol of distance represents extends far beyond the aesthetic realm. philosophical materialism, for instance, which believed that it could apprehend reality directly, today again gives way to subjectivist or neo-kantian theories which allow objects to be reflected or distilled by the medium of the mind before they may become cognitions. the subjectivism of modern times has the same basic motive as art: to gain a more intimate and truer relationship to objects by dissociating ourselves from them and retreating into ourselves, or by consciously acknowledging the inevitable distance between ourselves and objects. when confronted with a stronger self-awareness, this subjectivism inevitably leads to an emphasis upon our inner nature, while on the other hand it is associated with a new, deeper and more conscious modesty, a delicate reticence towards expressing the ultimate, or towards giving a naturalistic form to a situation that would constantly reveal its innermost foundation. in other scientific areas, for instance, and with regard to ethical considerations, the trite utility as the evaluative standard of volition recedes still further. the extent and intensity of the role that money plays in this dual process is first manifested as the conquest of distance. it is not necessary to elaborate upon the fact that only the translation of values into the money form makes possible those associations of interests in which the spatial distance of the interested parties is absolutely negligible. to give but one of hundreds of possible examples: only by means of money is it possible for a german capitalist and also a german worker to be actually involved in a ministerial change in spain, in the profits of african gold mines, and in the outcome of a south american revolution. however, money as the agent of the opposite tendency seems to me to be of greater significance. the loosening of family ties has its origin in the special economic interests of its individual members, which is possible only in a money economy. above all, it brings about a situation in which the means of livelihood can be based on completely individual talents. for only their equivalent money form makes possible the evaluation of very specialized tasks, and without their conversion into a general value they could hardly arrive at mutual exchange. the money form of equivalents makes individual relations with the outside world and entrance into unfamiliar groups that are interested only in the money value of tasks or the money contributions of their members more easy. the family, whose structure is based on collective ownership, particularly upon land ownership, is the exact opposite. collective ownership resulted interests which sociologically represented a continuity in the connections between family members; whereas the money economy makes possible, indeed even enforces, a mutual distancing. certain other forms of modern existence, aside from those of family life, rest upon the distancing brought about by money transactions. in this way, an inner barrier develops between people, a barrier, however, that is indispensable for the modern form of life. for the jostling crowdedness and the motley disorder of metropolitan communication would simply be unbearable without such psychological distance. since contemporary urban culture, with its commercial, professional and social intercourse, forces us to be physically close to an enormous number of people, sensitive and nervous modern people would sink completely into despair if the objectification of social relationships did not bring with it an inner boundary and reserve. the pecuniary character of relationships, either openly or concealed in a thousand forms, places an invisible functional distance between people that is an inner protection and neutralization against the overcrowded proximity and friction of our cultural life. the less each individual produces a complete final product, the more his activity appears to be merely a preliminary stage, and the more the source of his activity seems to be removed from the ultimate meaning and purpose of his work. stated directly: just as money intervenes between person and person, so it intervenes between person and commodity. since the emergence of a money economy we are no longer directly confronted with the objects of economic transactions. our interest in them is disrupted through the medium of money, their own objective significance becomes dissociated from our consciousness because it is more or less excluded from its proper position in our constellation of interests by their money value. if we recall how often awareness of purpose is arrested at the level of money, then it becomes clear that money and the enlargement of its role places us at an increasingly greater mental distance from objects. to be sure, the distinctive aesthetic and romantic experience of nature is perhaps possible only through this process. whoever lives in direct contact with nature and knows no other form of life may enjoy its charm subjectively, but he lacks that distance from nature that is the basis for aesthetic contemplation and the root of that quiet sorrow, that feeling of yearning estrangement and of a lost paradise that characterizes the romantic response to nature. if modern man finds his highest enjoyment of nature in the snowbound regions of the alps or on the shores of the north sea, then this can hardly be explained solely in terms of the heightened need for excitement. it is also to be explained by the fact that this inaccessible world, which actually rejects us, represents the extreme enhancement and stylization of what nature as a whole still means to us: a spiritual distant image that confronts us even in moments of physical proximity as something internally unattainable, a promise that is never fully kept and an entity that responds to our most passionate devotion with a faint resistance and strangeness. landscape painting, which as an art depends upon distance from the object and upon a break in our natural unity with it, has only developed in modern times as has the romantic sense of nature. they are the result of that increasing distancing from nature and that particularly abstract existence that urban life, based on the money economy, has forced upon us. this in no way contradicts the fact that it is precisely the possession of money that has allowed us to take flight into nature. first, credit has become a technical form of transaction either with or without very much reduced psychological overtones. second, the accumulation of small debts up to the final payment by cheque brings about a certain reserve on the part of the buyer in relation to the trader. the continuous and direct interaction that is common to cash payments is eliminated. viewed from the outside and, as it were, aesthetically, delivery by the businessman has acquired the form of a tribute, of an offering to the powerful that is accepted, at least in individual cases, without a corresponding return. since payment at the end of the credit period is made not from person to person but by a cheque, by an order, as it were, to the objective account at the bank, this reserved behaviour persists on the part of the individual. with this teleological web we have reached the very pinnacle of the contradiction that lies in the drowning out of the end by the means: the growing significance of the means goes hand in hand with a corresponding increase in the rejection and negation of the end. and this factor increasingly permeates the social life of the people; it directly interferes with personal, political and economic relationships on a large scale and indirectly gives certain age groups and social circles their distinctive character. although it is true to say that we control nature to the extent that we serve it, this is correct in the traditional sense only for the outer forms of life. if we consider the totality of life, then the control of nature by technology is possible only at the price of being enslaved in it and by dispensing with spirituality as the central point of life. the illusions in this sphere are reflected quite clearly in the terminology that is used in it and in which a mode of thinking, proud of its objectivity and freedom from myth, discloses the direct opposite of these features. to state that we conquer or control nature is a very childish formulation since it presupposes some kind of resistance, a teleological element in nature itself, an animosity towards us. yet nature is merely indifferent and its subjugation does not affect its own regularities. just as, on the one hand, we have become slaves of the production process, so, on the other, we have become the slaves of the products. that is, what nature offers us by means of technology is now a mastery over the self-reliance and the spiritual centre of life through endless habits, endless distractions and endless superficial needs. thus, the domination of the means has taken possession not only of specific ends but of the very centre of ends, of the point at which all purposes converge and from which they originate as final purposes. man has thereby become estranged from himself; an insuperable barrier of media, technical inventions, abilities and enjoyments has been erected between him and his most distinctive and essential being. in the case of the present age, in which the preponderance of technology obviously signifies a predominance of clear intelligent consciousness, as a cause as well as an effect, i have emphasized that spirituality and contemplation, stunned by the clamorous splendour of the scientifictechnological age, have to suffer for it by a faint sense of tension and vague longing. they feel as if the whole meaning of our existence were so remote that we are unable to locate it and are constantly in danger of moving away from rather than closer to it. the significance of money for this kind of life follows quite logically from the premises that all the discussions in this book have identified. it is only necessary to mention here the dual role of money. money stands in a series with all the means and tools of culture, which slide in front of the inner and final ends and ultimately cover them up and displace them. money is most important in illustrating the senselessness and the consequences of the teleological dislocation, partly because of the passion with which it is craved for, and partly because of its own emptiness and merely transitional character. however, in this sense, money is only the highest point on the scale of all these phenomena. it carries out the function of imposing a distance between ourselves and our purposes in the same manner as other technical mediating elements, but does it more purely and completely. here, too, money shows itself to be not an isolated instance but rather the most perfect expression of tendencies that are also discernible in a series of lower phenomena. yet in another respect, money stands outside this whole series by frequently being the agent that brings about the transformations in the sequence of purposes. money interweaves this sequence as the means of means, as the most general technique of practical life without which the specific techniques of our culture could not have developed. indeed, even in this respect, money exhibits the duality of its functions through whose unification it repeats the form of the greatest and the deepest potentialities of life: on the one hand, it is an equal member or even a first among equals in the series of human existence, and, on the other, it stands above them as an integrating force that supports and permeates every single element. in the same way, religion is a force in life, one interest among others and often opposed to them. the difference in the mating period of animals is basically determined by the fact that birth has to take place during seasons that are the most favourable with regard to feeding and climatic conditions for the raising of the young; indeed, some very primitive australian aborigines, who possess no domestic animals and are therefore regularly faced with famines, have children only at a definite time of the year. through his control over food and protection against the weather civilized man has become more independent, so that, with regard to mating, he can follow his individual rather than his general, necessarily rhythmically determined impulses. hence the above-mentioned variations in sexuality have been transformed into a more or less fluctuating continuum. if we apply this analogy to economic and general cultural life, then it becomes more easily comparable, since it is possible to buy anything at any time for money and so the emotions and stimulations of the individual need no longer to cling to a rhythm that would enforce a periodicity in order to satisfy them. when critics reproach the present economic order for its regular change between overproduction and crises, what they wish to indicate by this is that it is still imperfect and that a continuity of production and consumption ought to be established. at this point i would point to the extension of means of transport which have progressed from the infrequency of the mailcoach to the almost uninterrupted connections between the most important places and to the telegraph and telephone which makes communication possible at any time; the improvement of artificial lighting which increasingly eliminates the difference between day and night and, as a result, the natural rhythm of life; printed literature, which provides us, at any suitable moment and independent of the natural alternation in thought processes between exertion and rest, with thought and stimuli. in short, if culture, as one is accustomed to saying, overcomes not only space but also time, then this means that definite periods of time no longer determine the compelling framework for our activities and enjoyments, but rather they now depend only upon the relationship between the will and our ability and upon the purely objective conditions for carrying them out. thus, the general conditions of life are freed from rhythm; they are more even and provide individual freedom and possible irregularity. rhythm may be defined as symmetry in time, just as symmetry is rhythm in space. if one draws lines to represent rhythmical movement then they become symmetrical; conversely, the study of symmetry implies a rhythmic conception. both are different forms of the same basic motif. rhythm is for the ear what symmetry is for the eye at the start of all formations of raw material. in order to imbue things with an idea, a meaning and harmony, one has to form them symmetrically, organize the parts within the whole and order them evenly around a central point. thus, the creative power of man when confronted with the arbitrariness and chaos of merely natural formations is illustrated in the quickest, most visible and direct manner. symmetry is the first indication of the power of rationalism to relieve us of the meaninglessness of things and to accept them as they are. but this also indicates the limits to the meaning and justification of this style of life. it is oppressive in two respects: first, in relation to the human subject whose impulses and needs always arise only in a happy, fortuitous harmony with a fixed scheme rather than in a preestablished harmony; and second, and no less significantly, in relation to external reality whose powers and relationships to us can only be forcibly integrated into such a simple framework. with due regard to the different areas of validity, one might formulate this in terms of an apparent paradox: nature is not as symmetric as the mind would like it to be and the mind is not as symmetric as nature would like it to be. all the acts of violence and inadequacies that a systematic method imposes upon reality are also due to the rhythm and symmetry in the formation of the contents of life. on the contrary, we have already mentioned that they often have a regular cycle of periods of privation and times of frivolous jubilation that has been completely abolished by more advanced economic technology. however, this regularity of daily meals achieves its stability at very high levels of development but perhaps not at the highest levels of the social and intellectual scale. it is discontinued by the highest strata of society on account of their professional and social obligations, and complicated considerations of all kinds. the changing requirements of objective circumstances and the mood of the day may also cause the artist and the scholar to do the same. this already indicates how much the rhythm of meal times, and its opposite, corresponds to the rhythm of work. here too different sequences exhibit quite different relationships. primitive man works just as irregularly as he eats. tremendous exertions of energy, brought about by need or whim, are followed by periods of complete laziness which alternate with the former quite fortuitously. the modern factory, it is true, still possesses strong rhythmic elements, but, to the extent that they require regularly repeated motions, they possess an altogether different subjective significance than do the earlier work rhythms. whereas this earlier rhythm corresponded to the inner demands of physiological-psychological energies, the present rhythm is related either directly to the indifferent objective movements of the machine or to the necessity for the individual worker who performs only a small part of the process to keep pace with the other members of the workgroup. perhaps this brings about a deadening of the sense of rhythm as such. the old guild associations struggled, just like modern trade unions, for a reduction in hours of work. the development of money as an institution follows the same pattern. it exhibits certain rhythmic phenomena as a kind of intermediate stage. from the chaotic fortuitousness that must have characterized its first appearance, money passed through a stage that at least reflects a principle and a meaningful form, until, at a still further stage, money gains a continuity in availability through which it is able to adjust itself to all objective and personal needs, free from the constraint of a rhythmic and, in a deeper sense, still fortuitous framework. for our purposes it is necessary here only to illustrate the transition from the second to the third stage with some examples. even in the sixteenth century, in a city like antwerp, in which a tremendous number of money transactions took place, it was almost impossible to get hold of a considerable amount of money outside the regular fairs where bills of exchange were bought and sold. furthermore, as long as the businessman makes and receives all payments in cash, he must secure a considerable amount of cash whenever larger sums are due, and on the other hand he has to know how to invest such sums efficiently at times when his receipts arrive. the concentration of money transactions in large banks relieves him of the periodic necessity of accumulating and disposing of money. for since he and his business colleagues use the same clearing bank, assets and liabilities are now simply balanced by transferring the necessary amount from one account to another, so that the individual businessman needs only a relatively limited and stable amount of cash for daily expenses while the banks too need relatively less cash than the individual businessman did formerly because the credits and debits of different customers offset one another. finally, i wish to give one more example. the more or less periodic fluctuations between scarcity and abundance in a period in which a money economy is not yet fully developed produces a corresponding periodic fluctuation in the interest rate from extreme cheapness to exorbitant expensiveness. the perfection of the money economy tends to eliminate these fluctuations, so that the rate of interest, in comparison with earlier periods, remains stable. hence a change of 1 per cent in english discount rates becomes an event of major significance. in this way, the arrangements of the individual businessman become more easily adjustable and independent both of fluctuations that are beyond his control and of those fluctuations that often reluctantly forced him into bad forms of business practice. in this way, the calculability and secure equilibrium of life is indeed sacrificed and so is the style of life in the narrower sense. life is not controlled by ideas whose application always leads to systematization and strict rhythms; rather, it is formed out of individual elements regardless of the symmetry of the whole, which is experienced only as a constraint rather than as an attraction. the essence of symmetry lies in the fact that every element of a whole derives its position, its justification and its significance only in relation to other elements and to a common centre. while we have observed that there is a close correlation between liberal constitutions and the money economy, it is just as worthy of note that money provides an extremely efficient technique for despotism, as a means for incorporating the most remote places into its rule which, in a barter economy, always tend to separate and become autonomous. and whereas the individualistic society of england has developed and become a major power through the growth of its financial system, money is also the precursor of socialistic forms of society not only through the dialectical process of turning liberalism into its negation, but also quite directly because, as we have seen, specific monetary conditions present the blueprint or type of social form that socialism strives to establish. money here becomes a category among the forces of life whose distinctive characteristic is that their essence and meaning is to rise above the antagonisms that exist within their respective sphere of interests and to be quite indifferent towards them while at the same time participating in these antagonisms by taking sides where once they had been unconcerned or judges. first, this is true of religion which man needs in order to reconcile the dichotomy between his wants and their satisfaction, between his moral demands and his practice, between his ideal notion of the world and reality. if such conciliation is accomplished, however, religion no longer remains upon the heights that its highest moments have achieved but steps down to the battle arena and identifies with one side of the dualism of existence which it had previously unified. on the one hand, religion confronts what we experience as our whole life as an equivalent power; it is a totality that exists above all the relativity of human nature. for in reality the spirit is confronted not only with a corporality, such that in this opposition it first realizes its own essence, but also with spiritual phenomena of an inferior kind such as wickedness, indolence and hostility. such a metaphysics will not consider these qualities to be part of the spirit which is the absolute substance of being. instead, the spirit is juxtaposed to all worldly and imperfect existence as a party, a balancing factor, a specific value, even though spirit as an absolute incorporates everything. this dual existence is most radically effective in the concept of the self. the self who conceives the world confronts all the specific contents of the world on an equally high level, independent of all qualities, differences and conflicts that exist within the individual, as it were, as his own private affair. money, however, offers its services equally to almost every purpose within its sphere of influence. it does not exist in an antagonistic relationship to other things as do the other forces as soon as they transform their general meaning into a particular one. money actually preserves the comprehensive quality of its general meaning by the uniformity with which it serves protagonists when they use their general relation to money in order to work out their differences and to fight out their conflicts. in practice, the objectivity of money is not something that lies above oppositions so as to be subsequently used illegitimately by one side against the other, but is rather, from the very outset, of service to both sides of the conflict. in so doing, however, money does not belong to the broad category that includes air, which is breathed equally by the most diverse living organism, or weapons, which are used equally by all parties to a conflict. yet money is the most all-embracing instance of the fact that even the most radical differences and antagonisms in the human world always leave room for similarities and community of interests. but money is more than this. the other types of nonpartisan entities simply remain aloof from the inner purposes that they serve. money, however, no matter how alien it is as an abstract entity to all subjectivity and qualities, and as the economic abstract of the full extent of the universe of values, frequently displays the mysterious capacity for serving the distinctive essence and orientation of two antagonistic parties. one might say that the acceleration in the pace of social life that is brought about through an increase in the supply of money is most clearly discernible when the purely functional importance of money, without reference to its substantial value, is in question. the acceleration in the whole economic tempo is here raised to a still higher pitch, because, as it were, its origin is purely immanent; that is, it first manifests itself in the acceleration in the printing of money. this interrelationship is demonstrated by the fact that, in countries with a rapid pace of economic development, paper money is particularly apt to increase in quantity. the increase in the supply of money within a country always at first affects only a specific group that takes care of the flood of money. first and foremost, a rise in the prices of those goods will occur for which members of this group compete, whereas other commodities, the price of which is determined by mass consumption, will remain cheap. the gradual influx of larger supplies of money leads to attempts to balance them out, the previous price relationship of commodities is disrupted, and the budget of each household becomes accustomed to disturbances and shifts. in short, the fact that any increase in the supply of money affects the prices of goods unevenly necessarily has a disturbing effect upon the process of interpretation of the situation on the part of economically active persons. it leads to widespread experiences of differentiation, to the breakdown of existing parities and to demands for attempts to balance them out. the unevenness in the prices of commodities results in a situation in which certain persons and occupations profit by a change in money values in a quite specific manner while certain others suffer considerably. in former times this was especially true of the peasantry. towards the end of the seventeenth century, the english peasant, ignorant and helpless as he was, actually became squeezed between those people who owed him money and paid him its face value, and those to whom he owed money and insisted on payment by weight. later the same was true in india at every new devaluation of money: if the farmer sold his harvest, he never knew whether the money received would suffice to pay the rent for his mortgage. it has long been known that wages are the last to be adjusted to a general increase in prices. the weaker a social group is, the slower and more sparingly does the increase in the amount of money trickle through to it. this is one of the basic reasons why every increase in the quantity of money has such a disturbing effect upon the pace of social life, since it produces new differences on top of the existing ones and divisions, even in the budget of the individual family, that must constantly accelerate and deepen the level of awareness. it is quite obvious that a considerable decline in the amount of money will bring about similar effects except that they will be in reverse. the close relationship between money and the pace of life is illustrated by the fact that an increase as well as a decrease in the amount of money, as a consequence of its uneven diffusion, brings about those manifestations of differentiation in break-downs, irritations and the compression of mental processes. this implication of changes in the quantity of money is only a phenomenon or an accumulation of the significance of money for the relationship of objects, that is for their psychic equivalents. money has brought about new equations between objects. we compare them, one with another, according to their utility value, their aesthetic, ethical, eudaemonistic and labour value, with reference to hundreds of relationships of quantity and quality, so that their identity in one of these relationships may coincide with total lack of identity in another. thus, their money value creates an equation and comparison between them that is in no way a constant function of other values, yet is always the expression of some notions of value that are the origin and combination of others. every value standpoint that orders and ranks things differently and cuts across the usual mode of ordering things provides, at the same time, a new vitality for their relationship, a suggestion of as-yet unknown combinations and syntheses, of the discovery of their affinities and differences. this is because our minds are constantly endeavouring force differentiation upon the uniform. to the possibility condensing values by means of money and of condensing money by of means of its increasingly abstract forms, there corresponds the possibility of condensing monetary transactions. in so far as the economy of a country is increasingly based upon money, financial activities become concentrated in large centres of money transactions. in contrast to the country, the city has always been the seat of money transactions and this relationship also holds for comparisons between small towns and cities. an english historian has stated that in its whole history london, though it never functioned as the heart of england but sometimes as its brain, always operated as its purse. similarly, it was said that already at the end of the roman republic every penny that was spent in gaul entered the books of financiers in rome. the more basic reason for the evolution of financial centres is obviously to be found in the relativity of money. this is because, on the one hand, money expresses only value relationships between commodities, while on the other the value of every definite quantity of money cannot be as directly ascertained as can that of any other commodity; it has significance only in comparison with the total amount that is offered. therefore, the maximum concentration of money at one point, the continuous competition of huge amounts, the balancing of a major part of supply and demand as such, will lead to the more accurate determination of its value and to its greater utilization. a bushel of grain has a particular importance at any one place, no matter how isolated and regardless of its money value. a certain quantity of money, however, is important only in relation to other values. hence, in order to attain a stable and just valuation, money has to be confronted with as many other values as possible. the above-mentioned development from inconveniently large to smaller coins and money orders clearly has the same significance for the acceleration of the speed of transactions as the rounding off process, which itself suggests a physical analogy. the need to have money in small amounts increases with the speed of transactions. in this context, it is significant that in 1844 an english bank note circulated on average for fifty-seven days before being redeemed, whereas in 1871 it circulated for only thirty-seven days! if one compares the velocity of circulation of landed property with that of money, then this immediately illustrates the difference in the pace of life between periods when the one or the other was the focal point of economic activity. one thinks, for example, of the character of tax payments with reference to external and internal fluctuations depending on the object on which they were levied. in so doing, taxation attains a hithertounknown degree of flexibility and adjustability, and the result is a much greater variability and yearly fluctuation in the contribution of individuals, combined with a greater stability of the total revenue produced. the direct significance of and emphasis upon landed property or money for the pace of life may explain the great value that very conservative peoples place upon agriculture. the chinese are convinced that only agriculture secures the peace and perpetuation of states, and perhaps for this reason they have imposed a huge tax upon the sale of land, so that most sales of land are carried out privately and without official registration. but where the acceleration of economic life that is instigated by money has asserted itself, it seeks to impose its rhythm upon the resistant form of landed property. during the eighteenth century the state of pennsylvania provided mortgages for private land purchase and permitted the bills to be circulated as paper money. the following consideration may serve to characterize the contribution that money makes to the determination of the pace of life by its specific nature and in addition to its technical consequences that have already been mentioned above. the more precise analysis of the concepts of constancy and change reveals a dual opposition in the form in which they are realized. if we consider the substance of the world, then we easily end up in , of an unchangeable being, that suggests, through the idea of an the exclusion of any increase or decrease in things, the character of absolute constancy. if, on the other hand, we concentrate upon the formation of this substance, then constancy is completely transcended; one form is incessantly transformed into another and the world takes on the aspect of a perpetuum mobile. this is the cosmologically, and often metaphysically if a is applied, this contrast between thoroughgoing empirical method constancy and flux takes on a different aspect. if we observe the image of the world as it immediately presents itself to us, then there are certain forms that do persist through time, whereas the real elements of which they are composed are in continuous motion. thus, for example, the rainbow persists despite the constantly changing position of the water particles; the organic form persists despite the constant exchange of material of which it is composed. indeed, in every inorganic object only the relationship and the interaction of the smallest parts persist, whereas the parts themselves, hidden to our eyes, are in constant molecular flux. thus, reality itself is in a restless flux, and though we are unable to observe this because, as it were, we lack the sharpness of sight, the forms and constellations of movements solidify in the appearance of the enduring object. there is no more striking symbol of the completely dynamic character of the world than that of money. the meaning of money lies in the fact that it will be given away. when money stands still, it is no longer money according to its specific value and significance. the effect that it occasionally exerts in a state of repose arises out of an anticipation of its further motion. money is nothing but the vehicle for a movement in which everything else that is not in motion is completely extinguished. it is, as it were, an actus purus; it lives in continuous self-alienation from any given point and thus forms the counterpart and direct negation of all being in itself. but perhaps it represents, no less as a symbol, the opposite form, that of defining reality. the individual amount of money is, in fact, by its very nature in constant motion. but this is only because its value relates to the individual objects of value, just as the general law relates to the concrete conditions in which it realizes itself. if the law, which itself stands above all motions, none the less represents the form and basis of all motions, then the abstract value of wealth that is not subdivided into individual values and that is represented by money is, as it were, the soul and purpose of economic activities. as a tangible item money is the most ephemeral thing in the external-practical world; yet in its content it is the most stable, since it stands as the point of indifference and balance between all other phenomena in the world. the observation that this one institution participates equally in the two basic forms of reality may explain the relationship of these two forms. their significance is actually a relative one; that is, each finds its logical and psychological possibility for interpreting the world in the other. only because reality is in constant motion is there any sense in asserting its opposite: the ideal system of eternally valid lawfulness. conversely, it is only because such lawfulness exists that we are able to comprehend and grasp that stream of existence that would otherwise disintegrate into total chaos. the general relativity of the world, at first glance familiar to only one side of this opposition, in reality also engulfs the other side and proves to be its mistress where it only appeared to be a party. in the same way, money transcends its significance as a single economic value in order to represent abstract economic value in general and to entwine both functions in an indissoluble correlation in which neither is the first. money, as an institution of the historical world, symbolizes the behaviour of objects and establishes a special relationship between itself and them. the more the life of society becomes dominated by monetary relationships, the more the relativistic character of existence finds its expression in conscious life, since money is nothing other than a special form of the embodied relativity of economic goods that signifies their value. just as the absolutist view of the world represents a definite stage of intellectual development in correlation with the corresponding practical, economic and emotional conditions of human affairs, so the relativistic view of the world seems to express the momentary relationship of adjustment on the part of our intellect. more accurate, it is confirmed by the opposing images of social and subjective life, in which money has found its real effective embodiment and the reflected symbol of its forms and movements. marilyn deegan has a phd in medieval studies: her specialism is anglo-saxon medical texts and herbals and she has published and lectured widely in medieval studies, digital library research, and humanities computing. she is director of research development, centre for computing in the humanities, king's college london, and was formerly director of forced migration online at the refugee studies centre at oxford university, a major digital library and portal for materials concerned with all aspects of refugee studies. she is editor-in-chief of literary and linguistic computing, the journal of the association for literary and linguistic computing, and director of publications for the office for humanities communication based at king's college london. dr. deegan has recently published a book, digital futures: strategies for the information age, with simon tanner. claire warwick is a lecturer at the school of library archive and information studies, university college london, where she is programme director of the ma in electronic communication and publishing. she is also a research supervisor for cambridge university's mst in international relations. she has previously worked at sheffield university, department of information studies, and oxford university english faculty and humanities computing unit, and at chadwyck-healey ltd. her research interests center on the study of the use and impact of computing on humanities scholarship, and on the societal effects of electronic publishing. she is a member of the advisory panel for the portsmouth historical records series, e-press and the digital egypt for universities project and is a visiting lecturer at city college thessaloniki, greece. this collection has its origins in the research carried out over the past half a century in textually focused computing in the humanities, as susan hockey notes in this volume, found in father roberto busa's adaptation of early computing to textual location, comparison, and counting as part of his work in creating the index thomisticus, a concordance to the works of st thomas aquinas. yet even a cursory glance at this companion's table of contents reveals how broadly the field now defines itself. it remains deeply interested in text, but as advances in technology have made it first possible, then trivial to capture, manipulate, and process other media, the field has redefined itself to embrace the full range of multimedia. especially since the 1990s, with the advent of the world wide web, digital humanities has broadened its reach, yet it has remained in touch with the goals that have animated it from the outset: using information technology to illuminate the human record, and bringing an understanding of the human record to bear on the development and use of information technology. yet many disciplines have gone beyond simply wishing to preserve these artifacts, what we might now call early forms of data management, to re-represent and manipulate them to reveal properties and traits not evident when the artifact was in its native form. moreover, digital humanities now also concerns itself with the creation of new artifacts which are born digital and require rigorous study and understanding in their own right. widely spread through the digital humanities community is the notion that there is a clear and direct relationship between the interpretative strategies that humanists employ and the tools that facilitate exploration of original artifacts based on those interpretative strategies; or, more simply put, those working in the digital humanities have long held the view that application is as important as theory. thus, exemplary tasks traditionally associated with humanities computing hold the digital representation of archival materials on a par with analysis or critical inquiry, as well as theories of analysis or critical inquiry originating in the study of those materials. the editors intended this collection to serve as a historical record of the field, capturing a sense of the digital humanities as they have evolved over the past half century, and as they exist at the moment. yet, if one looks at the issues that lie at the heart of nearly all contributions to this volume, one will see that these contributions reflect a relatively clear view of the future of the digital humanities. in addition to charting areas in which past advances have been made, and in which innovation is currently taking place, this volume reveals that digital humanities is addressing many of the most basic research paradigms and methods in the disciplines, to focus our attention on important questions to be asked and answered, in addition to important new ways of asking and answering that are enabled by our interaction with the computer. tracing the history of any interdisciplinary academic area of activity raises a number of basic questions. what should be the scope of the area? is there overlap with related areas, which has impacted on the development of the activity? what has been the impact on other, perhaps more traditional, disciplines? does a straightforward chronological account do justice to the development of the activity? might there be digressions from this, which could lead us into hitherto unexplored avenues? each of these questions could form the basis of an essay in itself but within the space and context available here, the approach taken is to present a chronological account which traces the development of humanities computing. within this, the emphasis is on highlighting landmarks where significant intellectual progress has been made or where work done within humanities computing has been adopted, developed or drawn on substantially within other disciplines. it is not the place of this essay to define what is meant by humanities computing. the range of topics within this companion indeed sends plenty of signals about this. suffice it to say that we are concerned with the applications of computing to research and teaching within subjects that are loosely defined as "the humanities," or in british english "the arts. " applications involving textual sources have taken center stage within the development of humanities computing as defined by its major publications and thus it is inevitable that this essay concentrates on this area. nor is it the place here to attempt to define "interdisciplinarity," but by its very nature, humanities computing has had to embrace "the two cultures," to bring the rigor and systematic unambiguous procedural methodologies characteristic of the sciences to address problems within the humanities that had hitherto been most often treated in a serendipitous fashion. another indication of an embryonic subject area is the founding of a new journal. computers and the humanities began publication in 1966 under the editorship of joseph raben. with characteristic energy, raben nurtured the new journal and during its first years, at least until the regular series of conferences and associations that developed from them got going, it became the main vehicle for dissemination of information about humanities computing. raben recognized the need just to know what is going on and the journal's directory of scholars active was the first point of call for people who were thinking about starting a project. other informal newsletters also served specific communities, notably calculi for computers and classics, edited by stephen. waite. if any single-word term can be used to describe this period, it would almost certainly be "consolidation. " more people were using methodologies developed during the early period. more electronic texts were being created and more projects using the same applications were started. knowledge of what is possible had gradually spread through normal scholarly channels of communication, and more and more people had come across computers in their everyday life and had begun to think about what computers might do for their research and teaching. the personal computer is now a necessity of scholarly life, but in its early days it was considerably more expensive in relation to now and early purchasers were enthusiasts and those in the know about computing. the initial impact in humanities computing was that it was no longer necessary to register at the computer center in order to use a computer. users of personal computers could do whatever they wanted and did not necessarily benefit from expertise that already existed. this encouraged duplication of effort, but it also fostered innovation where users were not conditioned by what was already available. by the end of the 1980s, there were three dos-based text analysis programs: wordcruncher, tact, and microocp, all of which had very good functionality. owners of personal computers would work with these at home and, in the case of wordcruncher and tact, obtain instantaneous results from searches. microocp was developed from the mainframe program using a batch concordance technique rather than interactive searching. however, the main application of personal computers was that shared with all other disciplines, namely word processing. this attracted many more users who knew very little about other applications and tended to assume that the functions within word processing programs might be all that computers could do for them. humanist has become something of a model for electronic discussion lists. mccarty has maintained excellent standards of editing and the level of discussion is generally high. for those of us in europe the regular early morning diet of three to six humanist digests is a welcome start to the day. humanist has become central to the maintenance and development of a community and it has made a significant contribution to the definition of humanities computing. its archives going back to 1987 are a vast source of information on developments and concerns during this period and it was taken as an exemplar by the founders of the linguist list, the key electronic forum for linguistics. the size, scope, and influence of the tei far exceeded what anyone at the vassar meeting envisaged. it was the first systematic attempt to categorize and define all the features within humanities texts that might interest scholars. in all, some 400 encoding tags were specified in a structure that was easily extensible for new application areas. the specification of the tags within the guidelines illustrates some of the issues involved, but many deeper intellectual challenges emerged as the work progressed. work in the tei led to an interest in markup theory and the representation of humanities knowledge as a topic in itself. the publication of the tei guidelines coincided with full-text digital library developments and it was natural for digital library projects, which had not previously come into contact with humanities computing, to base their work on the tei rather than inventing a markup scheme from scratch. much of the tei work was done by e-mail using private and public discussion lists, together with a fileserver where drafts of documents were posted. from the outset anyone who served on a tei group was required to use e-mail regularly and the project became an interesting example of this method of working. however, participants soon realized that it is not easy to reach closure in an e-mail discussion and it was fortunate that funding was available for a regular series of face-to-face technical meetings to ensure that decisions were made and that the markup proposals from the different working groups were rationalized effectively. apart from major developments in personal computing, networking, and the tei, the kind of humanities computing activities which were ongoing in the 1970s continued to develop, with more users and more projects. gradually, certain application areas spun off from humanities computing and developed their own culture and dissemination routes. "computers and writing" was one topic that disappeared fairly rapidly. more important for humanities computing was the loss of some aspects of linguistic computing, particularly corpus linguistics, to conferences and meetings of its own. computational linguistics had always developed independently of humanities computing and, despite the efforts of don walker on the tei steering committee, continued to be a separate discipline. walker and antonio zampolli of the institute for computational linguistics in pisa worked hard to bring the two communities of humanities computing and computational linguistics together but with perhaps only limited success. the expansion of access to electronic resources fostered by the web led to other areas of theoretical interest in humanities computing. electronic resources became objects of study in themselves and were subjected to analysis by a new group of scholars, some of whom had little experience of the technical aspects of the resources. hypertext in particular attracted a good many theorists. this helped to broaden the range of interest in, and discussion about, humanities computing but it also perhaps contributed to misapprehensions about what is actually involved in building and using such a resource. problems with the two cultures emerged again, with one that was actually doing it and another that preferred talking about doing it. the introduction of academic programs is another indication of the acceptance of a subject area by the larger academic community. for humanities computing this began to happen by the later 1990s although it is perhaps interesting to note that very few of these include the words "humanities computing" in the program title. king's college london offers a ba minor in applied computing with a number of humanities disciplines, and its new ma, based in the centre for humanities computing, is also called ma in applied computing. mcmaster university in canada offers a ba in multimedia. the ma that the university of virginia is soon to start is called digital humanities and is under the auspices of the media studies program. the university of alberta is, as far as i am aware, the first to start a program with humanities computing in its title, although the university of glasgow has had an mphil in history and computing for many years. the archaeologist's work is, first, to find the material remains of our ancestors, second, to unearth those remains in ways that maximize the information they can convey, and, finally, to interpret the evidence. finding those remains may be done by excavation or surface survey, but both processes require the destruction of the very evidence that is the first fruit of the work. in some cases, the destruction is literal and complete, as when an archaeologist must dig through one level of a site to find another; often the destruction is not so complete but involves the removal of objects from their physical contexts. since contexts provide crucial clues to both physical and temporal relationships, evidence is lost even by removing objects. the destructive nature of the work demands extraordinarily careful record keeping to avoid accidental information loss. indeed, it can be argued that record keeping is the real occupation of the field archaeologist. the importance of context to the archaeologist highlights the importance of good records. records of both the archaeological contexts and the artifacts, not to mention a great many other aspects of an excavation or survey, provide the keys to analyses. those records are truly crucial, and the potential utility of the computer for that record keeping is obvious today. less obvious is the fact that, if computers are used to record the basic information on which archaeologists build their understanding of the past, all practitioners must, ultimately be able to use computers to retrieve that information. that is, computers and computer skills will be needed by all archaeologists if a substantial portion of the archaeological record is maintained in computer form. it is now obvious that computers are ideal for record keeping, but when archaeologists first started using computers, in the late 1950s, computers were arcane and foreign. their record-keeping potential could not then be utilized by academics because of costs and access limits; affordable microcomputers lay well in the future. data entry required punchcards or tape, and results were only available on paper. as a natural result, computers were used for tasks that required considerable processing power, not routine data storage. early uses therefore tended to be for statistical processing, and, though statistics had been used in archaeology for decades, more statistical procedures and more mathematically complex statistical procedures could be performed with computers. the difficulties with common terms and data structures have been exacerbated by the divergence between the needs of the archaeological community and those of museum professionals. archaeologists and the museum curators who ultimately receive the excavated artifacts record their information about those artifacts in strikingly different arrangements, the one beginning with excavation context and the other with either a cultural classification or an object-based classification system. as a result, the databases of the two groups are organized differently, making large-scale cooperation problematic. combining disparate datasets may not be a realistic near-term goal, but preserving datasets for future access is a necessity now. there are active digital repositories now available to archaeologists for the long-term preservation of their data files, and preservation of digital data is a major responsibility. the recovered artifacts and the data about them are the only surviving evidence of fieldwork. neither is fully meaningful without the other. it may also be argued that economic development will result in fewer possibilities for excavation and field survey, making excavations in museum basements and old records the archaeology of the future. many archaeologists initially used cad programs as drafting aids only, treating the computer-generated drawing as the final product. plans and elevations can be generated at various scales and with differing emphases without time-consuming redrafting. 2 however, dimensional information can be retrieved from the cad file at original measurement precision, unaffected by drawing scale, and the computer data can be segmented so that specific phases or other selections from the entire digital file can be included or excluded in any specific drawing. as a result, cad data eventually came to be recognized as more full and complex than any individual drawing. the larger promise of cad lay in its ability to record three-dimensionally and to generate drawings based on the full 3-d geometry of a site or structure. as database technology made it possible to record the added information that archaeologists were unearthing in the 1960s and 1970s, cad made it possible for archaeologists to record 3-d information easily and with the precision of the original field measurements. fortunately, advanced surveying equipment, particularly the total station and, to a lesser extent, desktop photogrammetry, made the gathering of 3-d data far easier. the 3-d capabilities of cad and advanced surveying instruments have led to very complex 3-d models as archaeological records. the models record the full geometry, and all dimensions can be retrieved at surveyed precision. the 3-d models can also be segmented to permit any on-screen view or paper drawing to include or exclude parts of the whole according to the needs of the moment. archaeologists using cad models principally for reconstructing, illustrating, or envisioning the past have worried less about precise dimensions and more about appearances. buildings or larger ensembles imagined with the aid of the computer and with simpler, idealized dimensions are much easier and less expensive to make and can be presented in ways that are extremely compelling. however, using cad as an aid to illustrate reconstructed realities nearly always involves subsidiary technologies, usually rendering programs or virtual reality programs that use cad models as their starting points. there are concerns unique to archaeology that complicate the use of all these technologies. for example, terminology issues greatly complicate the potential to share data with all these technologies, as already mentioned regarding databases. in addition, the ways archaeologists apply cad and gis technologies to data recording are quite different from the ways the software developers expected. standards designed by the developers do not generally suffice for scholarly users, and the development of scholarly standards has been slow and ill-focused. the archaeology data service in england has been especially helpful in this area, producing guides to good practice for scholars. much early archaeological computing required scholars to write their own programs, but that is no longer necessary. most now use commercial software, although special archaeological problems such as certain statistical procedures and seriation routines continue to inspire programming by archaeologists. another area in which programming has remained a necessity is that of simulation. using computers to simulate development in relatively simple societies was considered a very promising technique as early as the 1960s, but, as the popularity of the "new archaeology" waned, so did the enthusiasm for simulation. those interested in simulation today are more likely to use gis, cad, or statistics and ' to compare various predefined scenarios to test possible explanations of development, than to use simulation algorithms or artificial intelligence algorithms, which have seen little use in archaeology. nor is it a given that the archaeologists of the future will be able to use the digital data created in the field today. unfortunately, those who are adept with the technologies must often be self-taught, although these technologies are better learned from experts who understand the problems and pitfalls that are likely to be encountered. this problem of untrained or self-taught users of computer technology is not widely recognized or acknowledged in the field of archaeology at large, at least in part because archaeologists have not realized that all archaeologists need at least to be able to retrieve digital data from computer databases, cad models, or gis datasets. the absence of formal training represents a serious impediment both to effective application of computer technology and to the reuse of the digital data already gathered in computer form. the discipline itself in this context should be understood to include not only lecturers and students who impart and acquire knowledge, and curators who look after resources such as slides, but also the staff of museums and galleries, with the oversight and care of large quantities of works, usually many more than can be displayed. and we should remember that other historians need and use images from the past,' a fact reflected in the broad church of participants included in conferences. 2 in large collections especially, computers were early recognized as an essential tool in regimenting what was often incomplete paper documentation for the use of curators, conservators, registrars, and, eventually, the general public. indeed, should we extrapolate from the existence of the web to the decline of campusbased universities and physical museums and galleries? if galleries can only display a small proportion of their collection at any one time, should not funding go into web-based image databases? and if seminars and tutorials should remain because everyone recognizes the human and pedagogic value of face-to-face sessions, the fixed-term, fixed-place lecture might disappear in the face of the twin pressures of web-based profusely illustrated "lectures," and the increasing inability of students working to pay for their education to attend them. the challenge is to ensure that web-based "lectures" are of a quality equivalent to or higher than traditional ones. we might hope that the digital image, available well-catalogued and in profusion in a discipline for the development of which the photograph was partly responsible, will enhance art history's popularity and underline the worldwide importance of culture in an age where networks reach around the world. but much as some of us may struggle to minimize the future history of classical computing as a separate movement, classicists have had to forge their own history. even in the best of futures, where classicists customize general tools and share a rich infrastructure with larger disciplines, classicists will have to struggle mightily for their voices to be heard so that emerging systems and standards meet their needs. this chapter seeks to explain why classicists needed to create this separate history in the past and to ground current trends in a larger historical context. it is relatively easy to pass judgments on the past, but in using the past to argue for trends in the future this chapter justifies any unfairness in its own perfect hindsight by exposing its own predictions for the future. our lack of sophistication, which became clear when harvard began its own computing project in the summer of 1982, had one advantage. if we had been more knowledgeable, the department probably would not have moved forward but would have waited for technology to advance further. instead, the department invested so many resources that we could not easily pull back. in the end, our work on the specialized problems of classical typesetting helped lower the publication costs of harvard studies in classical philology and the loeb classical library, thus providing a justification for the initial investment. but if the results were ultimately satisfactory, the process was deeply flawed, and we were profoundly lucky to enjoy as much success as we did. many other projects in classics and throughout the academy have faced similar problems and not been so fortunate. we did have e-mail within our single machine but we only gained access to inter-machine e-mail when we joined a network called uucp. at the time, the machine would effectively grind to a halt every time it processed mail. nor was mail a very effective tool, since we knew very few people outside of our own group who had e-mail accounts. simple file transfers were beyond us and the current internet would have seemed outlandish: experience near the bleeding of technology tends to generate a schizophrenic attitude, alternating between the visionary and the cynical. in the late 1960s and early 1970s historians seemed to think that their profession, the craft and art of history itself, was on the brink of change. everywhere one looked the signs were unmistakable. a kind of culture war broke out in the profession and a flurry of tense conference panels, public arguments, and roundtables took place with subtitles, such as "the muse and her doctors" and "the new and the old history. " this culture war pitted the "new" history, largely influenced by social science theory and methodology, against the more traditional practices of narrative historians. the "new" historians used computers to make calculations and connections never before undertaken, and their results were, at times, breathtaking. giddy with success, perhaps simply enthusiastic to the point of overconfidence, these historians saw little purpose in anyone offering resistance to their findings or their techniques. when challenged at a conference, more than one historian responded with nothing more than a mathematical equation as the answer. one prominent british social historian, lawrence stone, disparaged the contributions of the new history and the costs it entailed: "it is just those projects that have been the most lavishly funded, the most ambitious in the assembly of vast quantities of data by armies of paid researchers, the most scientifically processed by the very latest in computer technology, the most mathematically sophisticated in presentation, which have so far turned out to be the most disappointing. " these sentiments are still widely held in the discipline and at the heart of them lay fundamental disagreements over the practice and method of history. in retrospect, we can see three distinct phases in the ways historians have used computing technologies. owsley, curti, aydelotte, and a few others in the 1940s were part of the first phase of quantitative history. these historians used mathematical techniques and built large datasets. a second phase began in the early 1960s and was associated with an emerging field of social science history. the "new" social, economic, and political history concentrated on mobility, political affiliation, urbanization, patterns of assimilation, and legislative behavior. it included historians using a range of statistical techniques, such as lee benson and allan bogue of the so-called "iowa school" of quantification, as well as olivier zunz, michael f. holt, steven thernstrom, j. morgan kousser, and many others. the pc revolution and the rise of the internet, along with the moore's law exponential increase in speed and disk capacity of computing technology, led to the third phase. in this current phase, the networking capacity of the internet offers the greatest opportunities and the most challenges for historians. at the same time as the internet has created a vast network of systems and data, personal computers and software have advanced so far that nearly every historian uses information technologies in their daily work. throughout the 1980s historians, especially in europe, refined the use of databases for historical computing. in the process they questioned how these tools affected their interpretations and whether the relational database models simply could not account for non-tabular data such as long texts, sound, images, and maps. manfred thaller's system tried to separate what he called the "knowledge environment" from the system environment or software, so that ideally the meaning of the records in a database remained independent of its source information. database design for historical computing led thaller and other quantitative historians to make distinctions between designs that build around the method of analysis or model from those which build around the source. in the former, historians extract information out of sources from the data's original context into a set of well-defined tables arranged to allow for predetermined queries. in the latter, historians concentrate on capturing the original text or data and its entire source context, only later making decisions about analysis and organization of the data. while historians continued to ponder the pros and cons of quantitative methods and while the profession increasingly turned to cultural studies, or took the "linguistic turn," as some have called the move toward the textual and french theory, computer scientists were hammering out a common language for shared files over the internet. the world wide web's opening in 1993 with the creation of html and browser technologies offered historians a new medium in which to present their work. one of the first historians to understand the implications of the web for scholarship, teaching, and historical study generally was edward l. ayers at the university of virginia. he was already embarking on a computer-aided analysis of two communities in the american tm browser and the web in operation at the civil war when he first saw the mosaic institute for advanced technology in the humanities at the university of virginia. ayers immediately discarded his initial plans to distribute his research project on tape to libraries and instead shifted the direction entirely to the world wide web. from its inception the valley of the shadow project was more than met the eye. the general public understood it as a set of civil war letters, records, and other accounts. students and teachers praised it for opening up the past to them and allowing everyone "to be their own historian. " scholars stood initially aloof, wondering what could possibly be so exciting about an electronic archive. gradually historians began to pay attention to the web and to the valley of the shadow project in particular. some historians saw the project as perhaps a potentially troublesome upstart that threatened to change the narrative guideposts laid down in other media. james m. mcpherson, one of the leading historians of the civil war period whose work had done so much to influence ken burns's the civil war, considered the project potentially too narrow and argued in a major conference panel on the valley project that the communities ayers had chosen were not representative of the north and south. it turns out that edward ayers's early decision to produce the valley of the shadow project for the world wide web was one of the keys to that project's long-term success. while the team at the university of virginia working with ayers has produced cdroms and ayers himself is publishing a narrative book out of the electronic archive, it is the website that has reached millions of users and to which all of the other scholarly objects point. the cd-roms of the valley of the shadow and who built america? contain remarkable materials, but their self-contained systems and off-the-network approach hobbled them, and by the late 1990s the cd-rom seemed a relic in the fast-moving technology marketplace. the world wide web offered connectivity and hypertext on a scale that the public demanded and that scholars were beginning to see as immensely advantageous. "historians might begin to take advantage of the new media," ayers wrote, "by trying to imagine forms of narrative on paper that convey the complexity we see in the digital archives. darnton used middle east studies as his example of "an endangered field of scholarship" about which the public cared and thought little. only a few years after darnton's review article, the importance of middle east studies could hardly be argued, as the events of september 11, 2001, brought the field to the immediate attention of the american public. darnton observed that the unpredictability of the market and the pressures on presses, tenure committees, and scholars seemed to conspire against the future of the academic book. finally, ayers and this author are working on an american historical review electronic article, titled "the differences slavery made: a close analysis of two american communities. " this piece of electronic scholarship operates on several levels to connect form and analysis. first, it allows one to reconstruct the process by which our argument was arrived at, to "follow the logic" of our thinking, in effect to reconstruct the kind of "trails" that vannevar bush expected the technology to allow historians. this electronic scholarship also uses spatial analysis and spatial presentation to locate its subjects and its readers within the context of the historical evidence and interpretation. and it presents itself in a form that allows for unforeseen connections with future scholarship. the work fuses interpretative argument with the digital resources of the valley of the shadow project, and it is designed for a future of networked scholarship in which interpretation, narrative, evidence, commentary, and other scholarly activities will interconnect. the resulting piece is intended to fuse form and argument in the digital medium. the authors propose a prismatic model as an alternative to darnton's pyramid structure, one that allows readers to explore angles of interpretation on the same evidentiary and historiographical background. the prismatic functionality of the article offers to open the process of historical interpretation to the reader, providing sequential and interrelated nodes of analysis, evidence, and their relationship to previous scholarship. as important, the article tries to use its form as an explication of its argument and subject. slavery, in other words, must be understood as having no single determinative value, no one experience or effect; instead, its refractive powers touched every aspect of society. the thresor was first put online in 1994 as an interactive database at the artfl project of the university of chicago, the ascii data files being converted to run under the program philologic. in 2000, artfl's dictionnaires d'autrefois were installed on a server at the inalf in nancy using the stella interactive database program. in the same year, the thresor was put up as an interactive database on a windows server at the university of toronto running under tactweb, the data files first of all being indexed by tact on an ibm-compatible. the concept of rigorous testing, ideally unbiased by personal preferences or interpretation by the critic, relies on the assumption that textual properties can be identified and isolated by automatic means. if automatic procedures cannot be applied, stringent procedures for the preparation of texts have to be designed. it has been, and still is, one of the particular strengths of most electronic studies of literature that the criteria used in the process of analysis are situated in a theoretical model of textuality that is based on a critical examination of the role of the critic and the specific properties of the text. these textual properties often need to be set off against the rest of the text, and here markup as the most obvious form of "external intervention" plays a leading role. the importance of markup for literary studies of electronic texts cannot be overestimated, because the ambiguity of meaning in literature requires at least some interpretative process by the critic even prior to the analysis proper. words as discrete strings of characters, sentences, lines, and paragraphs serve as "natural" but by no means valuefree textual segments. any other instance of disambiguation in the form of thematic markup is a direct result of a critic's reading of a text, which by definition influences the course of the analysis. as many computer-based studies have shown, laying open one's criteria for encoding certain textual features is of prime importance to any procedure that aspires to produce quantifiable results. as the majority of literary critics still seem reluctant to embrace electronic media as a means of scholarly analysis, literary computing has, right from the very beginning, never really made an impact on mainstream scholarship. electronic scholarly editions, on the contrary, are readily accepted in the academic community and they are rightly seen as indispensable tools for both teaching and research. but even the proliferation of electronic texts, some available with highly elaborate markup, did not lead to an increasing number of computer-based studies. in the light of these technical difficulties it seemed that once hardware limitations no longer existed and the computing infrastructure was up to the demands of scholarly computing, the electronic analysis of literature would become a major field of research. methodological problems addressed in studies that wanted to but could not, for technical reasons, attempt more demanding tasks that required large sets of data, access to a multitude of different texts and enough computing power to scan long texts for strings, for example, seemed a direct result of technical limitations. it is important that computer-assisted studies position themselves in the field of recent scholarship, take up the theoretical issues of text and textuality, and convey to the field of non-experts that the results merit closer inspection. computers are not used for the sake of using new tools, but computers can supplement the critic's work with information that would normally be unavailable to a human reader. speed, accuracy, unlimited memory, and the instantaneous access to virtually all textual features constitute the strength of the electronic tool. by tapping into the ever-growing pool of knowledge bases and by linking texts in ways that allow them to be used as huge repositories of textual material to draw on, traditional literary criticism can profit substantially from the knowledge and expertise accumulated in the search for a more rigorous analysis of literature as practiced in computer-based studies. right from the very beginning, humanities computing has always maintained its multi-dimensional character as far as literary genre, socio-cultural context and historiogeographical provenance of literary texts is concerned. studies have focused on poetry, drama, and narrative from antiquity to the present day. although an emphasis on literature in english can be observed, texts in other languages have also been analyzed. the variety of approaches used to come to terms with heterogeneous textual objects, the multitude of theoretical backgrounds and models of literature brought to bear on studies that share as a common denominator neither one single technique nor one "school of thought," but the application of a common tool, are the strong points of studies of literature carried out with the help of the computer. discussions of literary theory, textuality, and the interdisciplinary nature of computer-assisted literary analysis feature prominently in modern studies. in this respect, mainstream literary criticism is most open to contributions from a field that is, by its very nature, acutely aware of its own theoretical position. music notation software has been developed over the course of the last two decades of the twentieth century, now. allowing composers to prepare their own music without the necessity of hiring professional copyists. before the advent of this technology, individual parts were manually copied from the score. large ensemble pieces that require a score for the conductor as well as parts for individual musicians can now be produced in record time and at a fraction of the cost. once the master score is entered into the computer, the parts can be generated automatically with a minimal amount of manual editing. this software is also widely used in the music publishing industry and allows musicologists to produce scholarly editions of works much more accurately, efficiently, and economically than before. the word "multimedia" originally referred to works of art that combined multiple traditional art media, as in a multimedia art installation. by defining multimedia as "computer-based" such mixed-media works are deliberately excluded. in other words, a multimedia work is a digital work that is accessed through the computer even if parts were created in analogue form and then digitized for integration on the computer. this definition also excludes works that might have been created on a computer, like a desktop publishing file, but are accessed by readers through an analogue medium like print. these are but examples of types of multimedia. a proper topology would be based on criteria. for example, we could classify multimedia works in terms of their perceived use, from entertainment to education. we could look at the means of distribution and the context of consumption of such works, from free websites that require a high-speed internet connection, to expensive cd-rom games that require the latest video cards to be playable. we could classify multimedia by the media combined, from remediated works that take a musical work and add synchronized textual commentary, to virtual spaces that are navigated. other criteria for classification could be the technologies of production, the sensory modalities engaged, the type of organization that created the work, or the type of interactivity. if the practice of digitization creates the media that make up multimedia, it is the practice of combining multiple media into rhetorically effective works that is the play of multimedia. the possibilities of interactivity are what characterize computer-based media. in particular, interactive game designers have created complex systems for interaction with media. for this reason, the emerging field of digital game criticism that attempts to study computer games seriously as popular culture and rhetoric is important to the study of multimedia. what is a game and how can we think of games as forms of human art? what makes an effective or playable game? what are the possibilities for playful interaction through the computer? the interactive game may be the paradigmatic form of multimedia, or for that matter, the paradigmatic form of expression in the digital age. there are two ways we can think through multimedia. the first is to think about multimedia through definitions, histories, examples, and theoretical problems. the second way is to use multimedia to think and to communicate thought. the academic study of multimedia is a "thinking-about" that is typically communicated through academic venues like textbooks, articles, and lectures. "thinking-with" is the craft of multimedia that has its own traditions of discourse, forms of organization, tools, and outcomes. to think-with multimedia is to use multimedia to explore ideas and to communicate them. in a field like multimedia, where what we think about is so new, it is important to think-with. scholars of multimedia should take seriously the challenge of creating multimedia as a way of thinking about multimedia and attempt to create exemplary works of multimedia in the traditions of the humanities. the performing arts, however, are not exclusively, or even primarily, textual. a work of dance, theater, or performance art is a visual, auditory, and, most of all, corporeal event. only in the 1980s, when low-cost personal computers acquired the ability to store and manipulate images, sounds, and finally video, did computers begin to offer an effective way to represent the phenomenon of performance. larry friedlander's shakespeare project anticipated many subsequent applications of digital technology to performance pedagogy. friedlander began to develop the shakespeare project in 1984 using an ibm infowindow system. he adopted hypercard in 1987 while the software was still in development at apple. because personal computers then had very crude graphics capabilities and no video, friedlander adopted a two-screen solution, with the computer providing random access to media stored on a laserdisk. the laserdisk contained hundreds of still images and, more important, six video segments, including two contrasting filmed versions of one scene each from hamlet, macbeth, and king lear. the shakespeare project used this video material in three ways. in a performance area, students could read the shakespearean text alongside the video, switch between film versions at any time, jump to any point in the text, and alternate between a film's original audio track and a recording of friedlander's interpretation of the actors' "subtext. " in a study area, students participated in interactive tutorials covering aspects of shakespearean performance such as characterization and verse. finally, in a notebook area, students could extract digital video excerpts to incorporate into their own essays. in each case, the computer made it possible for students to read a performance almost as closely and flexibly as they could a printed text. these cd-roms take advantage of the ability acquired by personal computers in the 1990s to display video directly, obviating the need for a laserdisk player and second monitor. this approach is far more elegant, compact, and cost-efficient than using laserdisks, but the video in these early cd-rom titles is much smaller and lower in quality than that of a laserdisk. by 2000, faster computer processors and video cards, along with more efficient video compression schemes and widespread dvd technology, had finally closed the gap between personal computers and laserdisk players. models of theaters and scenery, no matter how detailed, immersive, or interactive, simulate only the environment within which performances take place. there have also been attempts to use computer animation techniques to simulate the phenomenon of performance itself, both for pedagogical and scholarly purposes. again, larry friedlander produced one of the earliest examples, a program called theatergame created in conjunction with the shakespeare project. this software was innovative for its time and attracted a good deal of press attention. theatergame allowed students to experiment with staging techniques by selecting crude two-dimensional human figures, clothing them from a limited palette of costumes, positioning set pieces on a virtual stage, and finally moving the virtual actors around the stage and positioning their limbs to form simple gestures. the goal was to allow students with no theater experience or access to real actors to investigate the effects of basic staging choices. at the same time friedlander was developing theatergame, tom calvert began to develop a similar, but vastly more sophisticated, application geared toward choreographers. the project started in the 1970s as a dance notation system called compose that ran on a mainframe computer and output its data to a line printer. in the 1980s, calvert replaced abstract symbols describing motions with 3-d human animations and dubbed the new program lifeforms. the human models in lifeforms are featureless wireframes, but the movements are precise, flexible, and anatomically correct. lifeforms was designed as a kind of word processor for dance students and practicing choreographers, a tool for composing dances. in 1990, the renowned choreographer merce cunningham adopted the software, bringing it to international attention. in the early 1990s, lifeforms became a commercial product. virtual vaudeville strives to produce the sensation of being surrounded by human activity on stage, in the audience, and backstage. viewers enter the virtual theater and watch the animated performances from any position in the audience, and are able to interact with the animated spectators around them. professional actors are recreating the stage performances, and these performances are being transferred to 3-d models of the nineteenthcentury performers using motion and facial capture technology. the program is being built with a high-performance game engine of the sort usually used to create commercial 3-d action games. in a series of productions starting with invisible site: a virtual sho in 1991, coates perfected a technique for producing the vivid illusion of live performers fully integrated into a rapidly moving 3-d virtual environment. the spectators wear polarized glasses to view huge, high-intensity stereographic projections of digital animations. the projections that surround the revolving stage cover not only the back wall but the stage floor and transparent black scrims in front of the performers. the digital images are manipulated interactively during the performances to maintain tight synchronization between the live performers and the media. the use of computers in the performing arts does not merely add a new tool to an old discipline. it challenges some of our most basic assumptions about performance. first, it blurs the boundaries between performance disciplines. when we watch a performer automatically triggering recorded fragments of dialogue as she moves across a stage, are we witnessing a piece of music, dance, or theater? second, it blurs the boundaries between scholarship and creative practice. is someone who extrapolates a complete set design, script, and performance from shreds of historical evidence to create a virtual performance simulation an artist or a scholar? when someone develops new artificial intelligence algorithms in order to create a dramatic interaction between a digital character and a live actor, is that person functioning as a computer scientist or an artist whose medium just happens to be computers? finally, digital technology is challenging the very distinction between "liveness" and media. when a live performer interacts with a computergenerated animation, is the animation "live"? this pattern, moreover, is consistent with other studies that show, for example, that initial grassroots efforts to exploit the internet and the web for political activism are soon squeezed out as extant power centers learn, if somewhat more slowly, how to use the web and the net to re-establish their dominance and centrality online. similarly, more ecumenical proponents of online religion hope that a global internet may facilitate a global, dialogical culture that fosters the many voices of diverse religious traditions in a new pluralism. but the emerging patterns of use of the internet, while giving a certain advantage to previously marginalized traditions, rather largely reflect and preserve the existing religious landscape, i. e. , one marked far more often by allegiance to one's own tradition and proselytizing on its behalf. " as the first line of an e-mail. there is not a one-to-one correspondence between von neumann's logical parts and the hardware components present in modern machines, so i will demarcate a section for each logical part, providing a basic explanation of the role of that part, and explain in greater detail how one or two hardware components perform the operations characteristic of that logical part. my choice of components and sequence of discussion will be guided by the framing narrative, the story of how one types and sends an e-mail that says "hi! " but i will occasionally offer asides rather than omit an essential component. keyboards have simple microprocessors that constantly scan the circuit board looking for completed circuits. these detect both an increase and a decrease in current, the pressing and the releasing of a key. when a completed circuit is found, the microprocessor compares the completed circuit with its programmed character map, a sort of seating chart of characters. if more than one circuit is completed, the microprocessor checks to see if that combination of keys is recorded in the character map. the character map points to a specific scan code for the completed circuit, and it is this scan code that is sent to the computer for translation into the appropriate ascii bit string. the scan codes are standard, but the character map is specific to a particular keyboard. the real significance of the character map lies in the fact that it separates the function of the keyboard from the letters printed on the plastic keys. let us return to our depressed keys, our scan codes waiting in the bios, the component responsible for making sure that the various parts of the computer work together. actually a bit of software code, the bios is stored in the chipset. most computers employ three levels of software: the os; the device drivers that include instructions for operating particular peripherals; and the bios that translates and transmits instructions and data between the os and the drivers. the bios handles the transmission of the electrical signals sent between the various peripherals. so the bios receives our scan code, translates it to the appropriate ascii code, and sends it to the os. after that, the video adapter is checked and, if all is well, something appears on the monitor. next is the test of the system ram, during which the machine will seem to count each bit of memory. then the post continues through the various system components, checking functionality and, when appropriate, loading a device driver into the bios, ensuring proper and rapid functioning when that device is called by the os. in most cases, the bios will then print to the screen a summary of the system configuration, which will flash by just before the os starts. then the post contacts the cmos again looking for storage devices tagged as boot devices, pieces of hardware that might contain an os. finally, the bios checks the boot sector of those devices for a master boot record that will take control of the pc for the remainder of the startup. a ram chip is an integrated circuit made of millions of pairs of transistors and capacitors that are linked to create a memory cell. each cell can hold one bit of data. a capacitor holds a charge, and the transistor acts as a switch, allowing the control circuitry to change the state of the capacitor. these capacitors and transistors are arranged as a grid, with the columns connected by bitlines and the rows connected by wordlines. in both cases, a "line" is a microscopic strand of electrically conductive material etched into the ram chip. when a burst of electricity is transmitted through a bitline, every closed transistor, each switch that is "on," charges its capacitor. the combination of bitlines and wordlines defines an address for each switch and capacitor. this also accounts for why this type of memory is called random access: you can access any memory cell directly if you know its address. most ram is volatile, or dynamic, meaning that the capacitors are always leaking their charge and thus must be refreshed constantly. after bells, civic officials developed several time-keeping technologies to regulate everything from the marketplace to the postal system. beginning in the thirteenth century, officials regulated the market with clocks, setting times at which particular merchants could do business and hours during which locals could shop. previous to the fifteenth century, universities varied the time and duration of lectures according to content. by the fifteenth century, particularly in secondary schools, days were divided into discrete blocks during which specific subjects were taught, and these hours were measured by bells and sandglasses. in addition to measuring and dividing the day, timekeeping devices increasingly aided the rationalizing of space. between the fifteenth and eighteenth centuries, postal and courier services increasingly abstracted distance by measuring it in units of time. while the qwerty arrangement might not be the ideal arrangement of keys independent of mechanism used to print those keys, the arrangement was the most functional of sholes's designs. the design problem faced by sholes was that of overlapping rods: if a typist struck in sequence two adjacent keys, their rods would intersect and jam. then the operator would have to stop typing and dislodge the mechanism, losing valuable time. sholes's keyboard minimized the likelihood of jamming by separating keys for letters that frequently appear adjacent to one another in common words. the arrangement aims to achieve maximum speed through maximum synchronization of operator and machine. it is often stated that sholes designed the keyboard to slow down operators of the typewriter; in fact, sholes designed the keyboard so as to better coordinate the actions of the machine and its operator, not just to slow the operator but to develop a sequence and a rhythm that was manageable by both human and machine. today we assume that good typists use all fingers, but this technique was not common until fifteen years after the typewriter went to market. in fact, there was much debate surrounding the feasibility of teaching this skill. early typists used the "hunt and peck" method with remarkable success. in 1882, mrs l. v. longley issued a pamphlet proposing a method of typing that used all ten fingers. a typing instructor in cincinnati, mrs longley met with great opposition in the trade press. even five years after the publication of her pamphlet, trade magazines carried stories arguing the impracticality of her proposal, citing a lack of strength and dexterity in some fingers. five years later, frank mcgurrin, a court stenographer from st louis, again proposed a ten-finger method of typing. he added to his technique the skill of "touch typing," the ability to type without looking at the keyboard. he also met with resistance but silenced his adversaries when, in 1888, he won a typing contest using his new method. the chord keyset would also allow users to manipulate a keyset and a mouse at the same time without ever looking at their hands. engelbart imagined a reincarnation of the remington racer who could change paper without ever losing her place in the copy. his input devices would become extensions of the hands, and users would manipulate them without the aid of the other senses. yet such facility would require learning another language, a new code, an additional symbol set that in its abstraction matched closely the binary set used by the computer itself. the boundary between man and machine seemed permeable, but man seemed to be the one crossing the line, the one adopting the characteristics of the other. despite the apparent contradictions in engelbart's efforts to build input devices that would augment the human intellect, he and licklider provide inspiration for, if not demonstration of, what the computer might someday be. engelbart in his 1961 report "program on human effectiveness" describes his plan for the augmentation of the individual problem solver. his objective is to "develop means for making humans maximally effective as comprehending solvers of problems," and he plans to do this by inserting computers into various levels of our hierarchy of problem-solving tools. here again he returns to issues of training, proposing that humans be conditioned both to use his input devices and to understand the logical operations that make the computer work. engelbart wants to build tools even if he must first build machines; he wants humans to train computers, but for now he must settle for computers that can train humans. today, children use computers from such a young age that manipulating a mouse seems "intuitive" and programming languages seem "natural. for example, a historian preparing an analysis of demographic data transcribed from census books, parish records, and city directories might classify individuals by sex, age, occupation, and place of birth. places of birth might in turn be classified as large or small cities, towns, villages, or rural parishes. a linguist studying a text might classify each running word of text according to its part of speech, or each sentence according to its structure. linguists, literary scholars, or social scientists might classify words occurring in a text by semantic category, organizing them into semantic nets. classification serves two purposes, each important: by grouping together objects which share properties, it brings like objects together into a class; by separating objects with unlike properties into separate classes, it distinguishes between things which are different in ways relevant to the purpose of the classification. the classification scheme itself, by identifying properties relevant for such judgments of similarity and dissimilarity, can make explicit a particular view concerning the nature of the objects being classified. since classification relies on identifying properties of the object being classified, perfect classification would require, and a perfect classification scheme would exhibit, perfect knowledge of the object. because a perfect subject classification, for example, locates each topic in a field in an n-dimensional space near other related topics and distant from unrelated topics, a perfect subject classification represents a perfect map of the intellectual terrain covered in the area being classified. for this reason, classification schemes can carry a great deal of purely theoretical interest, in addition to their practical utility. classification schemes necessarily involve some theory of the objects being classified, if only in asserting that the objects possess certain properties. every ontology can be interpreted as providing the basis for a classification of the entities it describes. and conversely, every classification scheme can be interpreted with more or less ease, as the expression of a particular ontology. in practice, most classification schemes intended for general use content themselves with representing something less than a perfect image of the intellectual structure of their subject area and attempt with varying success to limit their theoretical assumptions to those most expected users can be expected to assent to. at the extreme, the assumptions underlying a classification scheme may become effectively invisible and thus no longer subject to challenge or rethinking; for purposes of scholarly work, such invisibility is dangerous and should be avoided. all of the cases described so far classify objects based on the value of a single characteristic attributed to the object. in the ideal case, the characteristic can be readily and reliably evaluated, and the values it can take are discrete. the more borderline cases there are, the harder it is likely to be to apply the classification scheme, and the more information is likely to be lost by analyses which rely on the classified data rather than the original data. in less simple classification schemes, multiple characteristics may be appealed to. these may often be described as involving a hierarchy of increasingly fine distinctions. the dewey decimal classification, for example, assigns class numbers in the 800s to literary works. within the 800s, it assigns numbers in the 820s to english literature, in the 830s to german literature, the 840s to french, etc. within the 820s, the number 821 denotes english poetry, 822 english drama, 823 english fiction, and so on. further digits after the third make even finer distinctions; as a whole, then, the classification scheme may be regarded as presenting the classifier and the user with a tree-like hierarchy of classes and subclasses, with smaller classes branching off from larger ones. the idea of a classification as describing an n-dimensional cartesian space is thus in many cases a dramatic simplification. it is nonetheless convenient to describe each characteristic or property appealed to in a classification as determining a position along an axis, even if that axis has no meaning for many classes in the scheme. those offended by this inexactitude in the metaphor may amuse themselves by thinking of the logical space defined by such a classification not as a cartesian or newtonian one but as a relativistic space with a non-euclidean geometry. when combinations of terms from different axes are specified in advance, as part of the process of classifying or indexing an object, we speak of a pre-coordinate system. when a classification system limits itself to identifying the appropriate values along the various axes, and values may be combined at will during a search of the classification scheme, we speak of a post-coordinate system. printed indices that list all the subject descriptors applied to the items in a bibliography, in a fixed order of axes, for example, present a kind of precoordinate classification scheme. online indices that allow searches to be conducted along arbitrary combinations of axes, by contrast, provide a post-coordinate scheme. it is possible for printed indices to provide free combination of terms, but post-coordinate indexing is easier for computer systems. when the axes and the values along each axis are specified in advance, and items are classified in terms of them, we can speak of an a priori system. when the axes and their values are derived post hoc from the items encountered in the collection of objects being classified, we may speak of an a posteriori or data-driven system. author-specified keywords and free-text searching are simple examples of data-driven classification. citation analysis, and in particular the study of co-citation patterns in scholarly literature, as described by garfield, is another. in some cases, the identification of axes in a data-driven system may involve sophisticated and expensive statistical analysis of data. the technique of latent semantic analysis is an example: initially, the occurrence or non-occurrence of each word in the vocabulary of all the documents in the collection being indexed is treated as an axis, and a statistical analysis is performed to collapse as many of these axes together as possible and identify a useful set of axes which are as nearly orthogonal to each other as the data allow. in a typical application, latent-semantic analysis will identify documents in a space of 200 or so dimensions. it is sometimes possible to examine the dimensions and associate meaning with them individually, but for the most part data-driven statistical methods do not attempt to interpret the different axes of their space individually. let us label the classes with the numbers 1 to n, where n is the number of classes. let us assume that the objects to be classified can be placed in some definite order; the means by which we do this need not concern us here. then let us place the descriptions of possible classifications also into a definite order; it is easy to see that the list of descriptions is likely to be infinite, but we can nevertheless place them into a definite order. since we imagine the descriptions as being in english or some other natural language, we can imagine sorting them first by length and then alphabetically. in practice, there might be some difficulty deciding whether a given text in english does or does not count as a description of a classification scheme, but for purposes of this exercise, we need not concern ourselves with this problem: we can list all english texts, and indeed all sequences of letters, spaces, and punctuation, in a definite sequence. whenever systematic classification is needed, the researcher may apply an existing classification scheme or else devise a new scheme for the purpose at hand. existing schemes may be better documented and more widely understood than an ad hoc scheme would be; in some cases they will have benefited from more sustained attention to technical issues in the construction of a scheme than the researcher will be able to devote to a problem encountered only incidentally in the course of a larger research project. being based on larger bodies of material, they may well provide better coverage of unusual cases than the researcher would otherwise manage; they may thus be more likely to provide an exhaustive list of possible values for each axis. and the use of a standard classification scheme does allow more direct comparison with material prepared by others than would otherwise be possible. such relationships as these hold out the possibility not merely of an increased ability to store and retrieve information, but of an increased critical and methodological selfawareness. if the database allows one to home in on a fact or relationship quickly, it likewise enables the serendipitous connection to come forth. relational databases in humanistic study are, in this sense, not so much pre-interpretative mechanisms as parainterpretative formations. as with so many similar activities in digital humanities, the act of creation is often as vital to the experiential meaning of the scholarly endeavor as the use of the final product. unfortunately, the database still contains other instances of redundancy. for example, every publisher in our database is located in new york, which means this information is repeated for all six publisher records. theoretically, this situation could have been avoided if we had held ourselves to a very strict interpretation of "types of information that vary independently of one another" in our initial er diagram. in practice, such redundancies are often difficult to discern upon initial analysis of the domain. it may even be that some redundancies only appear after a considerable amount of data has already been entered into a prototype system. in this case, however, we need to add a foreign key value that contains a primary key from the authors table. there are three ways to accomplish this. the first is simply to look up the appropriate record in the authors table before executing the insert statement for the work, note its primary key, and add this to the statement. the second way is to perform an update statement after the record has been created, which adds the primary key for the author to the foreign key field author_id of the work record. the third, and perhaps the most efficient way, is to embed the statement that looks up the appropriate primary key into the insert statement for adding a work record. all three of these methods require that we have an understanding of how to query the database for information, so let us defer this discussion for a moment while we explore the query commands of sql. we see this very clearly when we observe the inability of a derivative model like tei to render the forms and functions of traditional textual documents. the latter, which deploy markup codes themselves, supply us with simulations of language as well as of many other kinds of semeiotic processes, as peirce called them. textualized documents restrict and modify, for various kinds of reflexive purposes, the larger semeiotic field in which they participate. nonetheless, the procedural constraints that traditional textualities lay upon the larger semeiotic field that they model and simulate are far more pragmatic, in a full peircean sense, than the electronic models that we are currently deploying. as the ivanhoe project was going forward, a second, related project called time modelling was being taken up by bethany nowviskie and johanna drucker. the project was begun "to bring visualization and interface design into the early content modeling phase" of projects like ivanhoe, which pursue interpretation through transformational and even deformative interactions with the primary data. ivanhoe's computer is designed to store the game players' performative interpretational moves and then produce algorithmically generated analyses of the moves after the fact. the chief critical function thus emerges after-the-fact, in a set of human reflections on the differential patterns that the computerized analyses expose. in the time modelling device, however, the performative and the critical actions are much more closely integrated because the human is actively involved in a deliberated set of digital transformations. the time modelling device gives users a set of design functions for reconstructing a given lineated timeline of events in terms that are subjective and hypothetical. our initial conception was toward what we called "ultimate ivanhoe," that is, toward a playspace that would be controlled by emergent consciousness software. with the computer an active agent in an ivanhoe session, players could measure and compare their own understandings of their actions against a set of computer generated views. this prospect for ivanhoe's development remains, but the example of time modelling exposed another way to situate the human interpreter at an inner standing point of an autopoietic system. an alternative approach to these matters through a formal reconception of . textspace as topological offers distinct advantages. because this space is autopoietic, however, it does not have what mathematicians would normally call dimensionality. as autopoietic, the model we propose establishes and measures its own dimensions autotelically, as part of its self-generative processes. furthermore, space defined by pervasive co-dependencies means that any dimension specified for the system might be formally related to any other. this metamorphic capacity is what translates the concept of a dimension into the concept of a dementian. this model of text-processing is open-ended, discontinuous, and non-hierarchical. it takes place in a fieldspace that is exposed when it is mapped by a process of "reading. " a digital processing program is to be imagined and built that allows one to mark and store these maps of the textual fields and then to study the ways they develop and unfold and how they compare with other textual mappings and transactions. constructing textualities as field spaces of these kinds short-circuits a number of critical predilections that inhibit our received, commonsense wisdom about our textual condition. first of all, it escapes crippling interpretative dichotomies like text and reader, or textual "subjectivity" and "objectivity. " reader-response criticism, so-called, intervened in that space of problems but only succeeded in reifying even further the primary distinctions. in this view of the matter, however, one sees that the distinctions are purely heuristic. the "text" we "read" is, in this view, an autopoietic event with which we interact and to which we make our own contributions. one natural improvement on the approach just described was to replace the long strings of complex formatting codes with simpler abbreviations that could be automatically expanded into the formatting commands being abbreviated. the compositor would enter just the abbreviation instead of the entire string of commands. in many typesetting systems in the 1960s and 1970s these abbreviations were called "macros," a term drawn from assembly language programming where it referred to higher-level symbolic instructions which would be expanded, before program execution, into sequences of lower-level primitive instructions. portability and interoperability are maximized. files that use descriptive markup, rather than complicated lists of application-specific formatting instructions, to identify components are much easier to transfer to other text processing systems. in some cases little more than a few simple systematic changes to alter the delimiter conventions, substitute one mnemonic name for another, and a translation of formatting rules into those for the new system, are all that is necessary. as we indicated above, this chapter is not designed to introduce the reader to text encoding, but to provide in overview some useful historical and theoretical background that should help support a deeper understanding. in this section we present some of the principal themes in sgml and xml, and take up several topics that we believe will be useful, but for a complete presentation the reader is again directed to the "gentle introduction" and the other readings indicated in the references below. although for a variety of reasons the sgml standard itself can be difficult to read and understand, the basic idea is quite simple. sgml is a language for creating machinereadable definitions of descriptive markup languages. as such it is called a "metalanguage," a language for defining a language. the sgml standard provides a way to say things like this: these are the characters i use for markup tag delimiters; these are the markup tags i am using; these are the acceptable arrangements that the components identified by my markup tags may take in a document; these are some characteristics i may be asserting of those components, these are some abbreviations and shortcuts i'll be using, and so on. an alternative characterization of sgml is as a "metagrammar," a grammar for defining other grammars; here "grammar" is used in a technical sense common in linguistics and computer science. but perhaps the most serious problem was that the html element set was impoverished. if web publishing were going to achieve its promise it would have to accommodate more sophisticated and specialized markup languages. that meant that it would need to be easier to write the software that processed dtds, so that arbitrary markup vocabularies could be used without prior coordination. and it was also obvious that some provision needed to be made for allowing more reliable processing of document instances without dtds. the tei had its origins in early november, 1987, at a meeting at vassar college, convened by the association for computers in the humanities and funded by the national endowment for the humanities. it was attended by thirty-two specialists, from many different disciplines and representing professional societies, libraries, archives, and projects in a number of countries in europe, north america, and asia. there was a sense of urgency, as it was felt that the proliferation of needlessly diverse and often poorly designed encoding systems threatened to block the development of the full potential of computers to support humanities research. the association for computers in the humanities, the association for literary and ic computing, and the association for computational linguistics. a steering linguist committee was organized and an advisory board of delegates from various professional societies was formed. two editors were chosen: michael sperberg-mcqueen of the university of illinois at chicago, and lou burnard of oxford university. four working committees were formed and populated. by the end of 1989 well over fifty scholars were already directly involved and the size of the effort was growing rapidly. the history of the development of the tei guidelines, briefly told here, makes evident an important point. the guidelines were, and continue to be, the product of a very large international collaboration of scholars from many disciplines and nations, with many different interests and viewpoints, and with the active participation of other specialists from many different professions and institutions. the work was carried out over several years within a disciplined framework of development, evaluation, and coordination, and with extensive testing in many diverse projects. all of this is reflected in a text encoding system of extraordinary power and subtlety. claims of the ubiquity of electronic text, such as this one published in 1971, may seem exaggerated for an era before personal computers, before standards for character or text encoding, before the world wide web, yet they have come more or less true. what is remarkable about this and other writing on electronic texts in the humanities published before 1995 is how well they predicted the uses of electronic text, before many people were even aware that text could be electronic. it is important to remember the introduction of the world wide web in the mid-1990s in evaluating the statements of computing humanists, for prior to the web's arrival, while a great deal was written on the uses of and audiences for electronic text, almost no one foresaw such a powerful tool for the wide distribution of electronic texts, or that wide distribution for a general reading public would become the most successful use made of electronic texts. still, the kind of environment described by wisbey in 1971, with computing centers sympathetic to humanists' concerns, existed at only a handful of universities and research centers at that time. one was more likely to find scientists and social scientists at such computer centers than literary scholars or historians. universities might have had at most one or two humanities professors interested in electronic texts, leaving computing humanists largely isolated, with annual conferences and specialist journals the only opportunities to discuss issues, ideas, and developments with like-minded colleagues. most of these studies were written prior to widespread popularization of the world wide web. as a tool, the web does not solve all of the problems surrounding the creation, storage, delivery and display of electronic texts, but certainly simplifies many of them, particularly in comparison with the older technologies used for electronic text storage and delivery such as ftp, listserv, and gopher. the early adopters, enthusiasts, and critics viewed electronic texts as the domain of scholars and researchers, and used electronic texts to assist in the traditional work of humanists as outlined in the table of contents reproduced above. they did not foresee the world wide web's capacity to reach a wider reading public. others, notably people associated with project gutenberg, distrust all encoding schemes, believing that the lack of encoding will better allow e-texts to survive changes in hardware, operating systems, and application software. no special software and little training are required for contributors to project gutenberg, and a volunteer ethos prevails. they will have over 10,000 titles at the end of 2003, but little can be said for the accuracy of the transcriptions, for there is no central editorial control. the lack of encoding means it would be impossible, for example, to separate notes from text, or to determine quickly where chapters begin and end, or to indicate highlighting and font shifts within the text. still, project gutenberg's founder michael hart has tapped into a volunteer spirit that drives most open source projects. several people have pursued the idea of creating an archive of works containing manuscripts and variant editions, meant for both sophisticated researchers and general readers. in this type of publication, researchers would have access to all manuscript versions, allowing them to trace the development of a work through its variants, while a general audience could use a preferred reading created by the editors and derived directly from the sources. this kind of archive, proposed for authors such as yeats, hardy, and others, would be a boon to both audiences, but has proven to be very difficult. outside of a few notable exceptions such as the canterbury tales project, this idea has rarely been realized, indicating the enormous commitment and difficult work required. scholars, students, librarians, computing professionals, and general enthusiasts of all kinds create and publish electronic texts. commercial publishers, notably those previously known for publishing microfilm collections, are digitizing and licensing access to ambitiously large collections of tens of thousands of volumes. a few projects, such as the university of virginia's collaboration with chadwyck-healey to publish early american fiction, and the text creation partnerships formed for early english books online and the evans early american imprints, are examples of partnerships between libraries and publishers. how do humanities scholars and students approach the creation of electronic texts? one axis stretches from a traditional humanities approach, taking time and great pains to create well-considered, well-documented, well-edited electronic works, such as the women writers online project at brown university, the archive of henrik ibsen's writings, sponsored by the national library of norway and hosted by the universities of oslo and bergen, and the archive of sir isaac newton's manuscripts at imperial college, london, to less rigorous efforts, relying on volunteers and enthusiasts, with the bestknown examples being project gutenberg and distributed proofreaders. this difference in approaches mirrors various editorial approaches in the past century, with the same difference occurring between scholarly editions and reading editions, each with different purposes and audiences. for some scholars, the latter type suffices for classroom use or quick consultation, while for others, the extensive documentation and editorial standards of the former are of paramount importance. there is a great deal of interest in improving this situation. libraries are beginning to include records for electronic texts in their online catalogues. other developments, such as the open archives initiative, could allow the discovery of the existence of electronic texts much more readily than at present. methods are under development for searching across collections stored and maintained at different institutions, meaning that someone interested in nineteenth-century american history could perform one search that would be broadcast to the many sites with collections from this period, with results collected and presented in a single interface. another type of divide exists as well. with the growing body of collections available from commercial publishers, the divide between the haves and have-nots in this area is growing. at a recent conference on nineteenth-century american literature, it was notable that graduate students at research universities had access to a wide range of commercially published electronic text collections, while many of their colleagues, recently graduated with first jobs at smaller institutions, did not. these untenured scholars may not need to travel to institutions to see original documents any more, but they will continue to need support to travel to institutions that have access to licensed collections of electronic texts. there is hope for these scholars, however, as libraries and museums digitize wider portions of their collections and make them publicly available. a much more complex problem is the limited range of electronic texts that are available. a crazy patchwork quilt awaits any researcher or reader willing to use electronic texts, and as mcgann points out, the selection of proper editions may not be given much thought. the situation resembles a land rush, as publishers, libraries, and individuals seek to publish significant collections. the number of freely available texts, from projects such as making of america, to the wright american fiction project, to the university of virginia e-text center, to the library of congress's american memory, is growing at a phenomenal pace. the commercial publishers listed above started as microfilm publishers, and their microfilm collections were formed by the same principle. copyright is the hidden force behind most electronic text collections. very few electronic text collections, even those from commercial publishers, contain publications under copyright. this has two main effects on electronic collections. first and foremost, it means that most digital collections consist of authors who lived and published up to the twentieth century; the works of writers after that may still be under copyright, and therefore more difficult and perhaps expensive to copy and republish. second, new editions of these pre-twentieth-century writers are generally excluded, with projects and publishers selecting those in the public domain. finally, contemporary works of literary criticism, biography, and theory, that could provide needed context and interpretation to the primary literature, also remain largely excluded. the possibilities inherent in the medium, for providing a rich context for the study of primary literary texts and historical documents, have not yet been realized. in some sense, while the world wide web has sparked development and distribution of electronic texts in numbers unthinkable before it, the tools available for using these texts are of lesser functionality than those available through the previous means of publishing, such as cd-roms. this is perhaps due to the lack of consensus about the uses of electronic, texts, as well as the difficulty of creating generalized text analysis tools for use across a wide range of collections. the acceptance of more sophisticated automated analysis will remain limited until more sophisticated tools become more widely available. until then, the most common activities will be fairly simple keyword searches, and text retrieval and discovery. these types of research can be powerful and important for many scholars, but do not begin to tap the potential of humanities computing. out on site, you were never parted from your plans. they were your bible. they got dog-eared, yellowed, smeared with mud, peppered with little holes from where you had unrolled them on the ground. but although so sacred, the plans were only the start. once you got out there on the site everything was different. no matter how carefully done, the plans could not foresee the variables. it was always interesting, this moment when you saw for the first time the actual site rather than the idealised drawings of it. take, for example, knowledge one might have of a particular thematic concentration in a deeply familiar work of literature. in modeling one begins by privileging this knowledge, however wrong it might later turn out to be, then building a computational representation of it, e. g. , by specifying a structured vocabulary of word-forms in a textanalysis tool. in the initial stages of use, this model would be almost certain to reveal trivial errors of omission and commission. gradually, however, through perfective iteration trivial error is replaced by meaningful surprise. there are in general two ways in which a model may violate expectations and so surprise us: either by a success we cannot explain, e. g. , finding an occurrence where it should not be; or by a likewise inexplicable failure, e. g. , not finding one where it is otherwise clearly present. in both cases modeling problematizes. as a tool of research, then, modeling succeeds intellectually when it results in failure, either directly within the model itself or indirectly through ideas it shows to be inadequate. the word "diagram" doubles as noun and verb and has a full range of verbal inflections. like "represent," its action is bounded, but more by ideas than appearance, even when that appearance is precisely delineated. as maxwell notes for physics, diagrams often represent force or movement, even if only implicitly, though the form is static. as a means of communication, e. g. , in a lecture or discussion between collaborators, diagramming is the point, not the static trace left behind. that trace may in fact be unintelligible apart from the discussion of which it was a dynamic part. why do we need an answer to this question? because, i have argued, ours is an experimental practice, using equipment and instantiating definite methods, for the skilled application of which we need to know what we are doing as well as it can be known. i have labeled the core of this practice "modeling," and suggested how, properly understood, modeling points the way to a computing that is of as well as in the humanities: a continual process of coming to know by manipulating representations. we are, i have suggested, in good epistemological company. but this only sharpens the epistemological question. the signified of modeling vanishes into the murk because we lack a disciplined way of talking about it. methods are explicit, actions definite, results forthcoming, yet we have been unable fully and persuasively to articulate the intellectual case for the means by which these results are produced. hence the just-a-tool status of computing, the not-a-discipline slur, the tradesman's entrance or other back door into the academy. no one doubts the usefulness of the practice. stanley fish has provided the most root-and-branch challenge to stylistics. he finds the whole project of identifying formal structures in a text and then interpreting them in relation to its meaning so flawed as to make stylistics entirely vacuous. a central problem for fish is the assumption that meaning resides within the text rather than being created as it is read. he argues that the formal features described by stylisticians are meaningless except in relation to the reader's perception of them within a reading situation. when abstracted from this setting they refer to nothing but themselves and so any further analysis of patterns within their use, or comparison with the use of others or in other texts, or relating of them to meaning, is entirely pointless. fish wants to do more than ridicule the occasional excesses of stylistics: he wants to demolish it entirely. the urgency in his analysis comes from his distrust of the claims of stylistics to a special "scientific" validity and of what he sees as its underlying antihumanist motivation, the exclusion of the human factor in reading and interpretation. it is possible, however, to propose an alternative motivation for stylistics, that is, the uncovering of patterns of language use which because of their "background" quality, or their emergence on a superhumanly wide scale, would otherwise not be noticed; and the testing of hypotheses about language use where some empirical validation seems possible and appropriate. an example of the former would be patterns of use of thou and you forms within one dramatist; an example of the latter would be curiosity about whether men and women write differently from one another. a well-founded computational stylistics works with tendencies rather than rules; the semantic operation of language is so variable that the relationship of feature to meaning can never be fixed. each element, and each combination of elements, can be used in new contexts to mean new things. yet there are also continuities and patterns. these require a mixed theory of meaning. a textual form has meaning in its local context, but also as part of a collective. thus an instance of i has a local meaning, a deixis in which the referent is the speaker, but also has a meaning as part of a wider abundance or scarcity of this pronoun in the text, reflecting a discourse more or less frequently framed as first-person expression. this follows the lines of a more traditional, hypothesis-driven design. the alternative approach is through exploratory data analysis, in which the researcher changes all possible parameters in the search for a revealing finding. performed with due cautions, this may lead to discoveries that might be obscured by the starting conditions of a more fixed study. as the cost in time of collecting data and manipulating it and presenting it visually has come down, the attractiveness of exploratory analysis has increased. underpinning any interest in assigning authorship is a model of the author. since the 1970s the traditional scholarly activity of determining authorship has been conducted with a certain unease, resulting from the work of the french post-structuralists roland barthes, michel foucault, and jacques derrida, who, in undermining what they saw as the bourgeois individual subject, displaced the author as the primary source of meaning for texts. in the literary sphere this individual subject had reached an apogee in the romantic idea of the heroic individual author. since structuralism, there has been more interest in the role of discourse, culture, and language itself in creating texts. in the 1980s, the speed and capacity of computers increased dramatically, and, with more and more texts being produced in computerized form, it became possible to create corpora much larger than the brown and lob, containing millions of words. the availability of language samples of this magnitude opened up the possibility of gathering meaningful statistics about language patterns that could be used to drive language processing software such as syntactic parsers, which sparked renewed interest in corpus compilation within the computational linguistics community. parallel corpora, which contain the same text in two or more languages, also began to appear; the best known of these is the canadian hansard corpus of parliamentary debates in english and french. a corpus provides a bank of samples that enable the development of numerical language models, and thus the use of corpora goes hand in hand with empirical methods. in the late 1980s, the increased availability of large amounts of electronic text enabled, for the first time, the full-scale use of data-driven methods to attack generic problems in computational linguistics, such as part-of-speech identification, prepositional phrase attachment, parallel text alignment, word sense disambiguation, etc. the success in treating at least some of these problems with statistical methods led to their application to others, and by the mid-1990s, statistical methods had become a staple of computational linguistics work. probabilistic parsing is one of the more recent applications of statistical methods to language processing tasks. again, large bodies of data previously annotated and validated for syntactic structure are required in order to provide statistics concerning the probability that a given syntactic construction is the correct one in its context. syntactic structure can be very ambiguous; traditional parsers often produced numerous alternative structural analyses for an input sentence. a probabilistic parser uses previously gathered statistics to choose the most probable interpretation. issues for corpus-based statistics gathering in order to be representative of any language as a whole, it is necessary that a corpus include samples from a variety of texts that reflect the range of syntactic and semantic phenomena across that language. this demands, first of all, that the data be adequately large in order to avoid the problem of data sparseness that plagues many statistical approaches. for example, for tasks such as word sense disambiguation, data must be extensive enough to ensure that all senses of a polysemous word are not only represented, but represented frequently enough so that meaningful statistics can be compiled. although it has been extensively used for natural language processing work, the million words of a corpus such as the brown corpus are not sufficient for today's largescale applications: many word senses are not represented; many syntactic structures occur too infrequently to be significant, and the corpus is far too small to be used for computing the bi-gram and tri-gram probabilities that are necessary for training language models for speech recognition. unfortunately, in the main, the large corpora freely available for research consist of texts that can be easily acquired and are available for redistribution without undue problems of copyright, etc. because of this, corpora used for statistics gathering for language processing are vastly over-representative of certain genres, in particular newspaper samples, which constitute the greatest percentage of texts currently available from, for example, the ldc, and which also dominate the training data available for speech recognition purposes. other available corpora typically consist of technical reports, transcriptions of parliamentary and other proceedings, short telephone conversations, and the like. the upshot of this is that corpus-based natural language processing has relied heavily on language samples representative of usage in a handful of limited and linguistically specialized domains. this can lead to drastically skewed results: for example, in newspaper data, there is a disproportionate number of complex np complements for some verbs, which appear in sentences typical of newspaper style, such as "the price rose two percent to 102 dollars per share from 100 dollars per share. the gathering of authentic language data from corpora enables a description of language that starts from the evidence rather than from imposing some theoretical model. because speakers and writers produce language with real communicative goals, corpora of nativespeaker texts provide, in principle, samples of genuine language. for this reason, one of the oldest uses of corpora is for dictionary-making, or lexicography, and in particular, lexicography with the goal of producing so-called "learners' dictionaries" designed for those learning a new language. the cobuild corpus was compiled starting in the early 1980s, at which time it included about 7 million words. this corpus was used to create the collins cobuild english dictionary, the first dictionary relying fully on corpora for its creation. following this lead, over the course of the next decade most british dictionary publishers began to use corpora as the primary data source for their dictionaries, although interestingly, american dictionary publishers are only now beginning to rely on corpora to guide lexicography. in general, researchers in the humanities and researchers in computational linguistics have not collaborated, despite their common problems and goals. with the advent of the world wide web, this should change soon. humanists have increased access to information about work in computational linguistics as well as to tools and resources developed by that community. computational linguists, on the other hand, are likely to face new language processing challenges due to the need to handle a greater variety of webaccessible materials, including literary works, historical documents, and the like. the eventual collaboration of these two groups should lead, in the end, to vastly increased capabilities for both. trust in any print edition, then, whether it be that made by franklin or any other editor, including myself, is necessarily faith-based, for readers cannot adequately see the documentary evidence that determines everything from genre to suitability for inclusion in a scholarly edition. indeed, such matters of representation are more than eminently relevant to humanities; they are central to humanities knowledge production itself. opportunities for analysis of who made the scholarly objects we study and for what purposes, and of which parts of those objects are constitutive and worthy of study, are proportionate to the visibility of foundational documentary evidence enabled by the medium of representation. in contrast to the constrained visibilities of book representations, access to questions of editorial fidelity and therefore to the editorial process itself is much more obtainable in an electronic edition featuring images of all documents edited as well as their translations into typography. in such a realm, 74 words cannot simply be excised without commentary and marks translated with a "one size fits all" authoritarian stance and go unnoticed, because a digital image of the document is available for readers to view, assess, compare with editors' representations. representation via digital facsimiles of original documents changes access to the foundational materials of scholarly editions, the contours of expertise, and even standard-setting itself. the idea of "poem" disciplines and contains views and the version represented of dickinson's writings so that they conform to social order and literary law, whatever the material evidence may suggest. according to this principle of commandment, the material evidence, the manuscripts, contain the idea of "poem" and an editor's job is to deliver that idea in a container that makes "poem" extractable. here textual boundaries are clear, commanded as they are by the ideas that demarcate genres for books. the temptation in disambiguating markup is to repeat that strategy of containment, for it is much easier simply to claim that a text is prose or poetry rather than to acknowledge that it is much more complicated than that, a blend of the two, and requires innovative extensions of the predetermined tei markup schemes. textual boundaries are not clear, hence on our submission form for co-editors, the word "genre" in the question asking them to select one for encoders is in quotation marks to underscore the fact that such denotation is forced by the encoding scheme. underscored both in the markup and the display of original documents is the fact that though an ideal idea of "poem" or "letter" must dominate for the writings to be neatly divided by bibliographically determined genre, and though some denotation must be made for the metainformation of markup, electronic editing enables a much more flexible approach to understanding dickinson's writings and her manipulations of genre. with many of the documents, readers cannot help but begin to ask "what is this? " "what is this writer doing? just as any editor has to take into account authorial intentions, and any reader is wise to consider both the writer's and subsequent editors' authorial intentions, multiple editors all working on parts of the same textual body must take into account the intentions of their co-editors and collaborators, those readers willing to commit time and energy and to abide by the principles established for scholarly textual production. such forced engagements with the sociologies of intention that frame and inhere in any and all textual productions are immensely valuable for creating editorial environments that are not only more trustworthy but that are bound to advance critical understandings, teaching scholars to ask questions heretofore unimagined. as i noted in an earlier essay, lucy suchman makes insightful observations about the conditions necessary for optimizing knowledge production. instead of viewing the "objective knowledge" proffered by a critical editon "as a single, asituated, master perspective that bases its claims to objectivity in the closure of controversy," "objective knowledge" in the production of a dynamic critical edition online can more easily be seen as "multiple, located, partial perspectives that find their objective character through ongoing processes of debate. " since critical vision is parallactic rather than unidimensional, the processes of comparing and evaluating those different angles of seeing as one compares and evaluates different images or different perspectives of the same images is essential in order to see more clearly and accurately. the locus of objectivity is not "an established body of knowledge . . . produced or owned by anyone," but "knowledges in dynamic production, reproduction and transformation, for which we are all responsible. an appropriate analogy, perhaps, is. with the contrast between handwoven rugs where the russet tones predominate and those where they give way to the greens and blues. the principal point of interest is neither a' single stitch, a single thread, nor even a single color but the overall effect. such effects are best seen, moreover, when different pieces are put side by side. that, at all events, is the case i shall present. the actual data for analysis consist of word-counts, from each of the forty specimens, of 150 common words. the words themselves are the 150 most common in the aforementioned database of seventeenth-century verse. such a list is more robust than one derived from a small, selective set of texts like the one we shall examine. the texts were prepared according to the same protocols as the main database. they were all modernized so as to remove the statistically misleading effects of seventeenth-century spelling. contracted forms like don't and i've were expanded to allow full counts of the parent words. a few common words like so and that were tagged in such a way as to distinguish their main grammatical functions. with this preparatory work complete, the texts were subjected to our sorting and counting programs. the raw counts for each common word in each text were normalized as percentages of the total number of words in that text. the object is to avoid the tyranny of the larger numbers with texts of uneven length. when any large group of texts is analyzed, such manifestations of concomitant variation as these yield complex but intelligible patterns of affinity and disaffinity. they are much enriched, moreover, by the many exceptions that arise. some of these are associated with authorial idiosyncrasies. the possible combinations from genre to genre, era to era, author to author, text to text, are almost unlimited. effects like these, we may suppose, impinge upon the minds of good readers as part of their overall response. but they are not easy for a reader to articulate. statistical analysis, on the other hand, offers clear but comparatively unsubtle ways of representing them. ) among the plays, the first ten selections are of verse drama. the next four are of prose drama and the last two, both from southerne's the fatal marriage, include both verse and prose. of the dramatists included, dryden, rochester, stapylton, congreve, and southerne offer authorial pairs within their respective subsets. sedley and shadwell make it possible to test dramatic authorship across the differences between verse and prose. while these 16 specimens of drama are too few to be representative, they may suffice for an instructive comparison with the poetry and the personal letters of their day. a good case can also be made for excluding the personal pronouns because they are too volatile in frequency to serve as reliable measures. if that is done, the question of the inflected verbs arises with some force. it would obviously be logical to exclude them too. but by now the increasing sacrifice of information must occasion serious concern. these three excisions would take out 81 words from the 150 of the list we have been using. a desirable rigor would be obtained at a disturbing cost. in the many and varied forms of writing composing category d, neither i nor you need ever occur, most other pronouns may be rare, and the articles are likely to be the chief referential markers. among the third-person pronouns, it and they are likely to predominate. and though historical writings are often more personally oriented than most treatises and disquisitions, they do not often find much use for the feminine pronouns. it might be interesting to ascertain whether a flurry of feminine pronouns could be found in any part of gibbon's great history except the chapter treating the notable exploits of the empress theodora. she is certainly one of the only two women named in the extensive titles of his 71 chapters. modern feminist historians are busy redressing the imbalances of the past, and altering the incidence of pronouns as they do so. with henry fielding's novels among my examples, gentle reader, i could not easily forget that many of the literary forms i have referred to, and the novel in particular, can draw on the resources of more than one of my categories. when this occurs, of course, the pattern of pronouns, articles, and auxiliary verbs is bound to be modified. my short list of distinguishable literary forms is only a scanty representation of the more obvious classes. and i am well aware that, in broadening its field of reference in recent years, the word genre has lost its former rigor. its over-extension can be seen when it is applied, for example, to personal letters, a whole family of loosely related literary forms. if a body of statistically significant differences between male and female writers can disappear completely over a generation or two, as these results suggest, the explanation should not be sought in biological differences between the sexes. but if differences in "gender," expressed in the little manifestations of male and female social roles touched on above, were the whole explanation, it is unlikely that the alteration would be so nearly absolute. irrespective of one's personal standpoint, it is hard to claim that the social roles of men and women in english-speaking societies can no longer be distinguished. in its traditional forms, textual analysis has to do with separating, distinguishing, and the like and it usually treats of single works. this sort of literary analysis often rests upon seemingly intuitive insights and discriminations, processes that may seem remote from the gathering and combining and classifying on which i have concentrated and in which computational stylistics is usually engaged. but those insights and discriminations are not ultimately intuitive because they draw, albeit covertly, upon data gathered in a lifetime's reading, stored away in a subconscious memory bank, and put to use, as samuel johnson reminds us, through processes of comparison and classification, whether tacit or overt. traditional and computational forms of textual analysis do have their distinct strengths. the parallels between the two plots of king lear or the subtleties discerned by coleridge in the opening lines of hamlet lie as far beyond the reach of a computer as the ironies offered by jane austen or the ambiguities detected by william empson. but computers obviously surpass our unassisted powers in managing large textual corpora, singling out unique forms or gathering all the instances of common ones. thematic research collections are being developed in tandem with the continuing collection development efforts of libraries, archives, and museums. these institutions have long served as storehouses and workrooms for research and study in the humanities by collecting and making accessible large bodies of diverse material in many subject areas. thousands of extensive, specialized research collections have been established, but they are often far removed from the scholars and students who wish to work with them. in recent years, many institutions have begun to digitally reformat selected collections and make them more widely available on the web for use by researchers, students, and the general public. the contents are thematic or focused on a research theme. for example, a number of the iath collections are constructed around author-based themes, including the complete writings and pictures of dante gabriel rossetti: a hypermedia research archive, the dickinson electronic archives, and the walt whitman archive. collections can also be developed around a literary or artistic work, such as uncle tom's cabin and american culture. a collection called hamlet on the ramparts, designed and maintained by the mit shakespeare project, is a good example of a collection based on a narrowly defined literary theme. that project aims to bring together texts, artwork, photographs, films, sound recordings, and commentary related to a very specific literary entity, hamlet's first encounter with the ghost. a collection theme can be an event, place, phenomenon, or any other object of study. interesting examples outside of literary studies include the salem witch trials, pompeii forum, and the waters of rome projects. some thematic collections are embedded in larger digital resources. collections built on a contextual mass model create a system of interrelated sources where different types of materials and different subjects work together to support deep and multifaceted inquiry in an area of research. although many of the resources referenced in this chapter contain large, complex cores of primary materials, this is not necessary to achieve contextual mass. for instance, the decameron web project, a collection devoted to the literary, historical, and cultural context of boccaccio's famous text, contains an established critical edition with translations and a selection of related materials, such as annotations, commentaries, critical essays, maps, and bibliographies. the pedagogical intent of the site is obvious in its content and layout, but it is simultaneously strong as a research context. a number of existing thematic collections exemplify the notion of contextual mass in their depth and complexity, as well as in their explicit goals. the core of the rossetti archive is intended to be all of rossetti's texts and pictorial works, and this set of primary works is complemented by a corpus of contextual materials that includes other works from the period, family letters, biography, and contemporary secondary materials. in the blake archive, "contextual" information is at the heart of the scholarly aims of the project. the documentation at the website explains that works of art make sense only in context. in this case creating a meaningful context involves presenting the texts with the illustrations, illuminated books in relation to other illuminated books, and putting those together with other drawings and paintings. all of this work is then presented in the context of relevant historical information. hypertext has been a monumental advancement in the functionality of collections, and many current projects are working toward extensive interlinking among aggregated materials. the walt whitman hypertext archive intends to link sources to demonstrate the numerous and complex revisions whitman made to his poems. the items associated with a poem might include the initial notes and trial lines in a notebook, a published version from a periodical, publisher's page proofs, and various printed book versions. the bolles collection on the history of london, part of the larger perseus digital library, exploits hypertext by presenting full historical texts on london with hyperlinks from names of towns, buildings, and people to correlate items, such as photographs and maps of places and drawings and biographies of people. the thematic collections concentrating on contextual mass and activity support are coming closest to creating a laboratory environment where the day-to-day work of scholars can be performed. as with scientific laboratories, the most effective places will be those that contain the materials that need to be studied and consulted during the course of an investigation as well as the instrumentation to carry out the actual work. for humanities scholars, a well-equipped laboratory would consist of the sources that would be explored, studied, annotated, and gathered in libraries and archives for an area of research and the means to perform the reading, analyzing, interpreting, and writing that would normally take place in their offices. the most successful of these sites will move beyond the thematic focus to provide contextual mass and activity support that is not only responsive to what scholars currently do, but also to the questions they would like to ask and the activities they would like to be able to undertake. to see a substantial portion of the works associated with a particular author or topic, it has been necessary for scholars to consult many catalogues and indexes and travel to different libraries, copying and collecting what they can along the way. in the case of fragile items, handling is limited and photocopying or microfilming may be prohibited. with thematic collections, scholars are now exercising the power of virtual collocation. by pulling together materials that are part of various works and located in repositories at different sites, they collocate deep, sophisticated collections of sources that can be used at a convenient time and place. for example, the directory of the rossetti archive, which lists pictures, poems, prose, illustrated texts, double works, manuscripts, books, biography, bibliography, chronology, and contexts, illustrates the diversity and richness that can be achieved through the collocation of digital materials. the potential of digital collocation has been restrained by copyright concerns. it is much less complicated to digitize and redistribute sources that do not have copyright restrictions, and therefore older materials in the public domain have been more widely selected for digital collections of all kinds. increasingly, thematic collection creators are working through copyright requirements for published works, as well as adding new, born digital sources, to build systematic and principled collections that meet their scholarly aims. again, the william blake archive is one of the projects that offer a sound model on this front. they have gained access to valuable and important materials for their collection by working closely with museums, libraries, and collectors to address their copyright concerns. for example, the entry for william blake lists 20 collections, two of which are contributors to the william blake archive project. subject collections are sometimes developed cooperatively by multiple ns , and these tend to cover broadacademic or geographic categories. examples institutio include the urban studies collection at the center for research libraries, a membership organization devoted to cooperative collection programs, and the east asian collections cooperativ ely developed at the university of north carolina and duke university. special collections departments develop concentrated subject and theme-based collections that include substantial primary materials. they are also the place where manuscripts, papers, and other unique, fragile, or valuable items are maintained and segregated for restricted access. as research libraries began to make materials accessible via the web, the contents of special collections were often the first to be selected for digitization. research libraries have been eager to share their treasures with a wider audience and make them more convenient to view, and offering a digital alternative decreases handling and the wear and tear on valuable materials. the first digitized special collections released by the library of congress in 1994 through their american memory project were photographic collections. the initiative has since grown to offer over 100 online collections, many of which are thematic and multimedia. most are based on existing special collections within the library of congress, but some, such as band music from the civil war era and the american variety stage, are thematic collections that have been collocated for the first time specifically for online presentation. but, at present, many kinds of resources, including journal article pre-print servers and lists of links on a web page, are being referred to as digital or electronic archives. the traditional, professional archive still holds an important place in the array of research collections, and some of these are being digitally reformatted while retaining their original aims and organizational methods. at the same time, colloquial applications of the term are increasing and new scholarly idealizations of the concept are evolving. a thematic collection is not a library in the organizational sense; it is a collection that may be developed or selected for inclusion in a digital library, or it may exist separately from any library or similar institution. a library contains a collection of collections and has an institutional commitment to services that ensure access and persistence. because of their size and diverse user population, libraries, including digital libraries, generally lack the coherency and the functional features characteristic of thematic collections. the library also contains an extensive body of primary and secondary materials covering the early modern period. the best example of a thematic collection within perseus is the prewentieth-century london segment based on the bolles collection on the history of london. it t is a digitized recreation of an existing special collection that is homogeneous in theme but heterogeneou s in content. as noted previously, it interlinks maps of london, relevant texts, and historical and contemporary illustrations of the city. needless to say, there is much overlap between digital library and thematic collection efforts, and variations and hybrids will continue to evolve along with the terminology. digital research libraries will no doubt continue to acquire the collections built by scholars, collaborative teams, and institutions, while scholars' projects grow to nest and annex digital special collections. an important outcome of this activity is that expert collocation of research materials by scholars is adding an important new layer of resources to humanities research collections. in the past, scholars used collections for their research and contributed to collections as authors, but their role as collection builders was limited. they developed significant personal collections for their own purposes, and they collocated materials by editing and publishing collected works. on the other hand, collection development has long been a significant part of the professional responsibilities of librarians, archivists, and curators. the interaction between the scholarly community and collection professionals has been an important influence on the development of research library collections. as the primary constituency of research libraries, scholars' questions, requests, and ongoing research and teaching activities have guided the collection processes at research institutions. of course, the essential contribution of scholars has been as creators of intellectual works that make up a large proportion of research collections. now scholars have also become creators of research collections, and this change will have an important impact on how our vast arrays of research materials take shape in the future. libraries are not yet systematically collecting the collections produced by scholars, in part because of the newness of the genre, but also because this type of meta-collecting is an unfamiliar practice. in fact, most research libraries do not yet collect and catalogue non-commercial, web-based digital materials of any kind. for example, at the time of this writing, worldcat, a major bibliographic database of library holdings, indicated that 263 libraries had purchased and catalogued a recent book of criticism on william blake by william vaughan. in contrast, only 26 libraries had added the william blake archive collection to their catalogue. as a point of reference, 34 libraries had catalogued voice of the shuttle, a humanities gateway that is widely used but less similar to the scholarly creations traditionally collected by libraries than the materials in a typical thematic collection. research libraries will need to fill the gap by developing mid-range collection services that actively collocate thematic collections. within meaningful aggregations. the profile of a mid-level research collection would look quite different from the current digital research library. it would not prioritize the top tier of scholarly journals, the major indexes, a large general set of reference materials, or disciplinary canons. instead, it would provide access to constellations of high-quality thematic research collections that are aligned with the scholarly activities conducted at the institution. scholar-created research collections are likely to increase in number as the work of producing them becomes more widely accepted as legitimate scholarship. research libraries have yet to grasp how this will impact their practices, and it may be some time before there is a confluence of scholarand institution-generated collections. first there will need to be a wider awareness of thematic collections as an important mode of scholarly work. scholars and scientists are producing an abundance of digital products, many of which are important, high-quality compilations, and these activities are proliferating through support from funding agencies. it will be necessary for research libraries to respond to this trend in their collection development programs. just as importantly, as collection building grows as a form of scholarly production, universities will need to provide resources to assist in this form of research. at present, the materials and expertise required for collection building research tend to be thinly scattered across departments, libraries, and computing centers. as scholars gain mastery in digital collocation and produce innovative research environments, they are practicing a new kind of collection development. thematic collections are conceived not only as support for scholarship but as contributions to scholarship. they provide configurations of research materials that strongly represent the relationships between different kinds of sources and different subject areas. through contextual mass, interdisciplinary platform, and activity support, thematic collections add density, flexibility, and interactivity to previously scattered and static repositories of content. they assist in the production of new research, but they also have the potential to substantively improve the scholarly research process. in thematic collections, research materials are closely tied to the processes of inquiry, making the contours of scholarship more visible as they are inscribed into the collection. the questions and methods that propel scholarship become part of the representation, and as scholars build the partnerships it takes to construct quality collections, the networks of researchers and institutions involved in a research area become more explicit. thematic collections are a substantive contribution to the rebuilding of research resources in the digital age, adding richness to our expansive stores of materials and new opportunities for humanities scholarship. in this chapter i will examine this relationship, and argue that we cannot hope to understand the complexity of such a relationship without looking at scholarly practices, and the way that such resources are used. this in turn means examining how we use information, either computationally or in print, in the wider context of scholarly life. we must consider how we read texts, and indeed visual objects, to understand why print remains important, and how it may relate to the digital objects and surrogates that are its companions. i am in the byzantine museum, being shown some of the treasures of this northern greek city, which , prides itself on having been longest under continuous byzantine rule. it is full of icons, mosaics, marble carvings, and richly painted tombs. my guide asks what i think of them, and repeatedly i marvel at their beauty. but this, it appears, is not the point. we must, i am told, be able to read these images and icons in the way that their creators intended us to. i see a tomb with a painted tree sheltering a rotund bird which looks rather like a turkey. in fact this is an olive, signifying eternity and peace, and the bird is a peacock, symbol of paradise. this is not simply wallpaper for the dead, but a statement of belief. the icons themselves glow with colors, whose richness i wonder at, but again they must be read. the gold background symbolizes heaven, and eternity, the red of a cloak is for love, the green band around the madonna's head is for hope. the wrinkles painted on her face are to symbolize that beauty comes from within, and is not altered by age. my guide begins to test me, what do i see in front of me? i struggle to remember the unfamiliar visual alphabet that i am being taught, and realize that reliance on the printed word, and a lack of such meaningful images, has deprived me of a visual vocabulary; that such iconography is part of another tradition of communication, whose roots, at least in this part of greece, are extremely ancient. they have long co-existed with the culture of the printed word, but have not entirely been supplanted by it. i am on an advisory board for the portsmouth record office. over a period of several decades they have painstakingly produced nine edited volumes of printed work cataloguing some of the holdings of their archives. they are arranged thematically, concerning dockyards, houses in the old town, legal documents. all are handsome hardbacks with an individual design. there is, it seems, still a substantial backlog of volumes in preparation, but printing has become so costly that they have decided to publish electronically, which is why i am here. we spend time discussing volumes awaiting release, and all are relieved to find that the next volume should soon be ready after a period of thirty years in preparation. there is a certain culture shock on both sides. i am amazed to discover how long the process of editing and publication takes. thirty years is long, but an average of a decade seems to be quite usual. i reflect that the papers themselves are historic, and still exist in the archive, waiting to be discovered, even if not calendared. but from the world i am used to, where technology changes so quickly, it is hard to return to a sense of such relative lack of change and urgency. i in turn argue that the idea of separate volumes need not be retained in an electronic publication. there is no need to draw up a publication schedule as has been done with the print volumes. we could publish data on different themes concur rently, in several releases, when it is ready, so that the digital records will grow at the pace of those who are editing, and not have to suffer delays. these suggestions are welcomed enthusiastically but the series editor reminds us that there are human dimensions to this process. those editing individual volumes may want to see their work identified as a discrete entity, to gain credit from funding authorities or promotion boards. these collections would also, it seems, be incomplete without an introduction, and that, paradoxically, is usually written last: a major intellectual task and perhaps the factor, i speculate privately, which may have delayed publication, since it involves the synthesis of a vast range of sources and an attempt to indicate their intellectual value to a historian. would it be possible to publish a release of the data without such an introduction, even if temporarily? we explore different possibilities for ways that data might appear with different views, to accommodate such problems, and the intellectual adjustments on both sides are almost visible. when the use of digital resources was first becoming widespread, assumptions were made that such resources could and indeed should replace the culture of interpreting rinted resources by reading them. enthusiasts championed the use of digital resources, p and decried those who did not use them as ill-informed or neo-luddite. during the 1990s efforts were made to educate academics in the use of digital resources. universities set up learning media units to help with the production of resources, and offered some technical rt to academics, though at least in the british system this remains inadequate. the suppo quality and quantity of digital resources available in the humanities also increased. and yet print scholarship is far from dead. academics in the humanities still insisted on reading books, and writing articles, even if they also used or created digital resources. as i discovered in portsmouth, cultural factors within academia are slow to change. the authority of print publication is still undoubted. why, after all, is this collection published in book form? as a result, there is a danger that humanities computing enthusiasts may be seen by. their more traditional colleagues as wild-eyed technocrats who play with computers and digital resources because they can. we may be seen as playing with technological toys, while our colleagues perform difficult interpretative tasks by reading texts without th e. aid of technology. so if reading is still so highly valued and widely practiced, perhaps in order to be taken seriously as scholars, we as humanities computing practitioners should take the activity of reading seriously as well. as the example of my portsmouth meeting shows, both sides of the debate will tend to make certain assumptions about scholarly practice, and it is only when we all understand and value such assumptions that we can make progress together. if reading a text is an activity that is not easily abandoned, even after academics know about and actively use digital resources, then it is important for us to ask what then reading might be, and what kind of materials are being read. furthermore, interpreting the results of the analysis is a particularly complex activity. one of the most fundamental ideas in the design of automatic information retrieval systems is that the researcher must know what he or she is looking for in advance. this means that they 'can design the system to find this feature and that they know when they have found it, and how efficient recall is. however, unlike social scientists or linguists, humanities researchers often do not know what they are looking for before they approach a text, nor may they be immediately certain why it is significant when they find it. if computer systems are best used to find certain features, then this is problematic. they can only acquire this knowledge by reading that text, and probably many others. otherwise, they are likely to find it difficult to interpret the results of computer analysis, or indeed to know what sort of "questions" to ask of the text in the first place. a transcribed manuscript which has been digitized allows us to access the information contained in it. it may only be as a result of having seen a digital image that the scholar realizes what further potential for interpretation exists, and this, it' appears, may only be satisfied by the artifact itself. this is such a complex process that we do not yet fully understand its significance. the nature of the resources that humanities scholars use should begin to explain why. there will continue to be a complex interaction between print and digital resources. there is not always a good fit between the needs of a humanities scholar or the tasks that they might want to carry out, and the digital resources available. print still fulfills many functions and this perhaps encourages scholars to produce more, by publishing their research in printed form. but surely we might argue that computational methods would allow more powerful and subtle ways of analyzing such material. reading, after all, seems such a simple task. this pattern making means that the relative meaning invested in a word may depend on its position in a text and the reaction that it may already have evoked in the reader. dramatic irony, for example, is effective because we know that a character's speech is loaded with a significance they do not recognize. our recognition of this will depend on the mental patterns and echoes it evokes. language may become loaded and suffused with meaning specifically by relations, or its use in certain contexts. the complexity of the patterns generated by human readers is, however, difficult to replicate when computational analysis is used. text analysis software tends to remove the particular phenomenon under investigation from its immediate context except for the few words immediately surrounding it. a linguist may collect instances of a particular phenomenon and present the results of a concordance sorted alphabetically, irrespective of the order in which the words originally occurred in the text, or the author of them. however, for a literary critic the patterns created are vital to the experience of reading the text, and to the way it becomes meaningful. thus the fragmented presentation of a computer analysis program cannot begin to approach the kind of understanding of meaning that we gain by reading a word as part of a narrative structure. it should therefore be becoming clear why print resources have continued to co-exist with digital ones. the key activity of the humanities scholar is to read and interpret texts, and there is little point in using a computational tool to replicate what human agency does best in a much less complex and subtle manner. reading a printed text is clearly a subtle and complex analysis technique. it is therefore not surprising that scholars have made the assumption that digital resources and computational techniques that simply replicate the activity of reading are a pale imitation of an already successful technique. to be of use to the humanities scholar, it seems that digital resources must therefore provide a different dimension that may change the way that we view our raw materials. the effect of this and the rise of the graphical user interface has been to re-acquaint us with the power of images, not only as ways of organizing information, but as way of communicating it. just as the images in the museum . in thessaloniki reminded me that there are other ways to interpret and communicate ideas, so we have had , to relearn ways to read an image, whether the frame contains a painted or a pixelated icon. the significance of such movement, and what it reveals about the play, is for the critic herself to decide, but the program has performed a useful form of defamiliarization, which would be difficult to imagine in a print environment. we can also see similar types of visual representation of textual information in the interactive 3-d model of dante's inferno. the effect of this is a similar kind of defamiliarization. a very new view of the information in the text is created, but the effect of it, at least on this reader, is to make her wish to return to the text itself in printed form, and to read it with new eyes. the digital resource has therefore not made reading redundant, but helped to suggest new avenues of interpretation. this project is being developed at the same research centre, iath, where mcgann is and ramsay was based. this is another intriguing connection between the world of digital resources and more traditional forms of scholarship. other historians have insisted that anecdotal sources and printed texts must be used to complement the findings, to do sufficient justice to the complexity of the area. it could be argued that the problems that they encountered were caused by an over-reliance on computational analysis of numerical data, and by the implication that this could somehow deliver a definitive explanation of slavery in a way that would finally put an end to controversies caused by subjective human analysis. a project such as valley of the shadow is a significant progression onwards, not only in computational techniques but also in scholarly method. it does not rely on one style of data, since it links numerical records to textual and spatial data. these resources are then offered as tools to aid interpretation, which takes place in the historian's brain, rather than in any way seeking to supersede this. the materials that humanities scholars use in their work are complex, with shifting shades of meaning that are not easily interpreted. we are only beginning to understand the subtle and complicated processes of interpretation that these require. however, when we consider that the process of reading a text, which may seem so simple, is in fact so difficult an operation that computer analysis cannot hope to replicate it at present, we can begin to understand why for many scholars the reading of such material in print will continue to form the core activity of their research. digital resources can, however, make an important contribution to this activity. far from attempting to replace the scholar's mind as the processing device, computer delivery of resources can help to support the process. the complexity of visual devices as a way of enshrining memory and communicating knowledge is something that the ancient world understood very well, as i learnt when i began to read the icons in thessaloniki. while much of this knowledge has been lost in the textual obsession of print culture, the graphical interface of the computer screen has helped us reconnect to the world of the visual and recognize that we can relearn a long-neglected vocabulary of interpretation. digital resources can provide us with a new way to see, and thus to perceive the complexities in the process of interpreting humanities materials. a new way of looking at a text can lead to a way of reading it that is unconstrained by the bindings of the printed medium, even if it leads us back to the pages of a printed book. the wonderful paradox here was that many of these european directors learned from watching american film. not knowing english, they read the visual structure of the films they saw and discovered a visual energy mostly missed by plot-centric american filmgoers and film reviewers. they embraced the american style and countered it simultaneously, all the while refusing the pressures of a studio system that, in america, saw films as commodities. and, as the writing and the filmmaking of the french new wave reached britain and then the usa, there was an interesting flow-back effect, turning the eyes of burgeoning american film scholars toward their own cinema, largely reviled, mostly forgotten. what was taught and studied in the early days? the auteur theory, in which the film director is seen as the formative creative consciousness of a film, turned out to be in practice not mere idolatry, but a means of analysis. if one could identify a filmmaker by certain stylistic and thematic traits, these could to be understood and analyzed. or, taking a foucauldian turn, the auteur could be constructed from a group of films, discovered as auteurs through their work, the analysis of which yields ways of cinematic seeing that were recognizable from film to film. many scholars have experimented with various modes of computer representations since the 1990s. i've indicated that the work of stephen mamber was responsible for getting me and others started in using the computer to analyze films. mamber went on to do what still remains the most exciting and complex computer-driven work of cinematic analysis, his "digital hitchcock" project on hitchcock's the birds. the project started in part when the academy of motion picture arts and sciences allowed him access to the script, storyboards, and other material related to the film. programming from scratch, mamber created a stunning presentation: beginning with the representation of the first frame of every shot of the film, all of which he managed to put on one screen. in other words, the whole film is represented by a still of each of its shots and each still is addressable. when clicked, they bring up the entire shot. it included interactivity that allowed the user to, for example, put together a montage cell from eisenstein's potemkin or see the results of classical hollywood three-point lighting by "turning on" the key, fill, and backlighting on a figure, or step through a sequence in vertigo to show how camera movement and framing tell a story different from the one a character in the film is telling. it contained a glossary, so that by clicking on any hotword in the text, one would jump to a definition of the term. i would only repeat that ip concerns should not be the initial obstacle to using moving images in a pedagogical or scholarly work. there are many ways to get what you need, if not always what you want. and fair use should still prevail for in-class pedagogical use, for digital stills in books, and, since the teach act has been passed, for wider educational distribution. the studios have become somewhat more accommodating, a response that may have to do with dvds and the unexpected popularity of their "supplementary material. " dvds also offer something of a new frontier in the development of digitized media in film studies and, hopefully, a relief for copyright concerns. the search function opens up an entirely new problem in film analysis. we are, in effect, giving over some critical work to the user of the program. this opens up difficult critical and functional questions, the most striking of which is: what is the reader going to want to search for? do we second-guess when we create the database, or create a list of keywords that we know the user may want to search on, and then make certain that they appear in the appropriate fields of the database? do we provide such a list in the program itself, perhaps as part of the introductory apparatus, thereby suggesting what the user might want to find? when we go to a web search engine, like google, we know more or less what we are looking for, even though what we get may not precisely fit our query. going to the interface of a film database and guessing what we want to find, is a problem of a different order. what we need, finally, to make this complete is a program that searches images themselves. we can tag images in the database and search that way. in other words, we can describe the image content, color, composition, and narrative relevance, and allow the user to choose these and bring up the related images or shots. a new codec, mp7, promises the ability to tag the image itself. but all these are still text-based. we have to write out a description for, or appended to, the image and then search for it by entering the keyword. there is software available to search still images by example: that is, by clicking on one image, other images with similar colors or shapes will be called up. these are complex applications, not yet easily available to a film scholar. searching moving images is another matter still. the ability, for example, to search a database of short cuts for zoom shots of specific kinds, based merely on clicking on an example of that kind, would open up new avenues for studying a film's textuality, an auteur's style, and, most important, begin to enable us to understand the structure of cinematic representation itself. software to search moving images is slowly being developed, although a researcher at kodak told me "not in our lifetime. " but that was six years ago. making sentences visibly explicit as composed, writers no longer worry about having to store mentally what they create. externalized, the words, phrases, and sentences of utterances can be easily deleted, rearranged, transformed grammatically, and replaced. we fully attend to the analytic task of doing these things. because we externalize subvocal or inner speech immediately in visual form, we feel totally conscious of the mental activity of composing. yet all we experience is the storage and the manipulation of symbols manifested outside the mind. what happens within the mind remains dark, especially to the expert composer, although novices learning how to use a language may assemble, with painful slowness, utterances in memory, consciously, before they utter them. the inexpert attend completely to the task. they may even be able to describe what steps they take consciously, probing their memory, and editing the results mentally in advance of speaking it. any native speaker can follow this method in preparing to utter a sentence in their own tongue. authors who describe their inner mental activity when creating and uttering sentences are indeed correct when they characterize the "voice" they hear as bodiless. even when we listen to the speech of others, it is not the speech of those others that we hear. it is the brain's own construct of those voices. obviously, different brains might well perceive very different sounds, and thus words, from the same speech sounds heard from others. the mind becomes a reader of things made by a mental process that manifests itself as a bodiless, at times strange, voice. cognitive sciences confirm authors' impressionistic descriptions of the languagemaking process as blank and inaccessible. the inner voice utters sentences that appear to come out of nowhere. that we hear a voice suggests we are listening to someone else, not ourselves but someone nameless, unrecognizable, and above all as distant from analysis as the mind of someone whose words we hear on a radio. we invoke such images for a form of memory of how to do something, creating utterances from natural language, where we lack the means to identify the remembering process with ourselves. that process exemplifies the expert mind failing to attend to what it is doing. during composition, we cannot correct this neglect, as we can when driving a car and suddenly wake up to a recognition that we have been driving on automatic, unattended, for some miles. we cannot will consciousness of how our minds create utterances. why cannot we recall how we make a sentence? why is the mind blocked by implicit memory in understanding one of the most critical defining features of a human being? the answer seems to lie in what we make memories of. our long-term memory maker, located in the hippocampus, can store language, images, sounds, sensations, ideas, and feelings, but not neural procedures. biologically, we appear to have no use for recalling, explicitly, activities by the language-processing centers themselves. our minds, as they develop, have no given names for the actors and the events at such centers. such knowledge is not forbidden. it is likely that it is unnecessary to and possibly counterproductive for our survival. louis milic some decades ago argued that stylistics must abandon impressionism for quantitative measures. since then, researchers who compiled numeric data about style and made such measures have been puzzled to explain how they illuminate literary works or the authors who made them. cognitive stylistics asserts that literary texts do not have style; individual minds do, in uttering. it contends that individual styles are profoundly affected by the neural constraints surrounding mental language processes. because minds can only be indirectly analyzed, stylistics as a discipline must do research at the interface of cognitive sciences and corpus linguistics. cognitive psychology and neuroscience tell us what to expect. corpus linguistics extracts quantitative features of texts that can be analyzed in terms of how they match what human sciences predict will be found. some trial literary analyses tested whether traits in works by two english poets, geoffrey chaucer and shakespeare, could be accounted for within the standard cognitive model of language processing. my studies used texts with normalized orthography, untranscribed phonetically because middle and early modern english pronunciation is not yet sufficiently well understood. the software, collgen, was limited to repeated fixed phrases and node-collocate pairs. unfixed groups of three and more collocates were uncollected. these limitations aside, published results of the analyses tended to affirm that the styles of both authors might be cognitively based, and partly recoverable. other findings illustrate the variety of useful applications of cognitive stylistics. chaucer's phrasal repetends in the general prologue that repeated somewhere in the rest of the tales were graphed against those tales. after taking into account their different sizes, a distribution showed that the general prologue shared more repetends with a quite unrelated tale, by the manciple, found always just preceding the last tale, by the parson. one possible interpretation of these results is that chaucer wrote the two works in the same year. the 107 phrasal repetends in agamemnon's speech in shakespeare's troilus and cressida served a different purpose. they explained why shakespeare used an odd sequence of images in lines that critics thought ill-conceived. passages from earlier poems and plays here documented associative linkages that are private. the printing press increased the length of narrative, revived the episodic pattern of epic poetry to fill the generous frame of the book, rendered mnemonic devices obsolete, and led to the birth of the novel, a relatively unconstrained narrative form that took plot to unprecedented levels of complexity: framing, embedding, branching, digressions, disruptions of temporal sequence, and multiple plot lines. thanks to the spatiality of the page, images found their way into texts, and visual presentation was eventually recognized and exploited as an expressive device. after these three stages, is there anything left for digital media to develop in the narrative territory? the digital medium offers a much more powerful engine for the creation of multivariant narrative than either aleatory combination or unconditional branching because the passage from one chunk of text to the next can be meaningfully controlled by code. in a hypertextual system, for instance, the operation of clicking on buttons activates the execution of some machine-language instructions, usually a "goto" to a certain memory address and an instruction to display the group of data beginning at this address. but the "goto" can be embedded in an "if . . . then . . . else" statement that imposes conditions on the branching. from the node "hero arrives at castle," for instance, the computer could be instructed to display the nodes "marriage to princess" or "king gives hero mission to rescue princess," depending on whether or not the reader has already visited "hero defeats villain. the reconstruction of a reasonably consistent narrative world from a scrambled discourse would quickly become a tiresome activity if the reader's role were exhausted by the metaphor of the jigsaw puzzle. any picture can be cut up, boxed, and sold as a puzzle. a narrow mapping of hypertext onto puzzles would therefore mean that the significance of the reader's involvement is independent of the narrative content of the text. from a literary point of view, the best hypertexts are those that manage to present the reader's activity of moving through the network and reassembling the narrative as a symbolic gesture endowed with a meaning specific to the text, a meaning which cannot be predicted by reading the medium as a built-in message. the hypertextual mechanism does not make a text automatically innovative and significant; it is up to the author to put it in the service of a unique textual idea, of a metaphor that gives meaning to the reader's activity. in victory garden, this activity is framed as an exploration of space. in an interactive fiction, we impersonate a character within the story world. we specify the actions of this character by typing instructions to the system in a simplified version of a natural language on an old-fashioned command-line interface. a parser analyzes the input, and the system responds with appropriate, or sometimes comically inappropriate actions. since most ifs are designed as adventure games, the user's character has a task to perform, and the plot only reveals itself fully to the user who is able to complete the task by solving all the problems. whereas ifs allow users to type whatever they want, but filter out a narrow range of acceptable inputs, fps games accept all of the user's actions as part of the game, but they limit these actions to moving around the game world, gathering ammunition, selecting weapons, and aiming and firing them. if we regard the player's moves as the writing of a "life story" for the character, every run of the system produces a new life, and consequently a new narrative trace. this narrative is created dramatically by being enacted, rather than diegetically by being narrated. because the speed of the processor and the number of variables involved in the execution of the game script make the system's reaction partially unpredictable to the player, fps games are inexhaustible matrices of different lives for the player's character. the stories of these lives remain in a virtual state until they are mentally replayed. when players tell about their game experience, they do so by producing a standard "diegetic" narrative. in contrast to the lives of fps players, the narratives produced by the sims can be enjoyed retrospectively as well as during the run of the program. the system allows users to retell the story of their game, or to invent their own sim stories, by taking snapshots of the screen and by complementing their pictures with text. many of these cartoon-form stories are posted on the game's website. whether or not they make interesting reading, and whether or not they chronicle actual games, the urge of players to share them with other players provides ample evidence that computer games can produce a genuine narrative interest in their fictional worlds. the textual phenomena described in this chapter represent two extremes on the cultural spectrum. while computer games have taken popular culture by storm, generating a billion-dollar industry that rivals hollywood and disneyland, hypertext is an arcane academic genre read mostly by theorists and prospective authors. what remains to be conquered for digital textuality is the territory that lies between the stereotyped narrative scripts of popular culture and the militant anti-narrativity of so many experimental texts: a territory where narrative form is neither frozen nor ostracized, but recognized as an endlessly productive source of knowledge and aesthetic experiences. in the early 1990s, when theorists embraced hypertext as the genre that would carry the future of digital literature, the concepts of non-linearity and spatiality stood at the top of their list of aesthetic preferences. but narrative, as we have seen, is a fundamentally temporal, and consequently linear form of meaning. still, we didn't arrive at digital humanities naively. though work in digital humanities has turned some relativists into pragmatists under pressure of technical exigencies, it has also reinvigorated our collective attention to the heart of our intellectual undertaking. as the applied knowledge of digital humanities becomes integrated into libraries and archives, providing the foundation for collection management and delivery systems, the ecological niche occupied by theory is called on to foster new self-reflective activity. we are not only able to use digital instruments to extend humanities research, but to reflect on the methods and premises that shape our approach to knowledge and our understanding of how interpretation is framed. digital humanities projects are not simply mechanistic applications of technical knowledge, but occasions for critical self-consciousness. such assertions beg for substantiation. can we demonstrate that humanities computing isn't "just" or "merely" a technical innovation, but a critical watershed as important as deconstruction, cultural studies, feminist thinking? to do so, we have to show that digital approaches don't simply provide objects of study in new formats, but shift the critical ground on which we conceptualize our activity. the challenge is to structure instruments that engage and enable these investigations, not only those that allow theoretically glossed discussion of them. from a distance, even a middle distance of practical engagement, much of what is currently done in digital humanities has the look of automation. distinguished from augmentation by douglas engelbart, one of the pioneering figures of graphical interface design, automation suggests mechanistic application of technical knowledge according to invariant principles. once put into motion, an automatic system operates, and its success or benefit depends on the original design. before plunging into the vertiginous world of speculative and 'pataphysical endeavors, some frameworks of traditional aesthetics provide useful points of departure for understanding the difficulties of introducing visual means of knowledge representation into digital humanities contexts. to reiterate, the themes of descriptive aesthetics that are most potently brought to bear on digital images are: truth value, "purity" or capabilities of a medium, the cognitive values of aesthetics, and the moral improvement aesthetic experience supposedly fosters. debates about beauty i shall leave aside, except in so far as they touch on questions of utility, and the commonplace distinction between applied and artistic activity. whether staged as cultural or individual improvements in character through exposure to the "best that has been thought" embodied in the artifacts of high, fine art, the idea lingers: the arts, visual, musical, or poetical, somehow contribute to moral improvement. samuel taylor coleridge, matthew arnold, and walter pater all reinforced this sermon on moral uplift in the nineteenth century. even now the humanities and fine arts often find themselves justified on these grounds. the links among ideas of progress and the application of "digital" technology to humanities continue to be plagued by pernicious notions of improvement. the decades of the 1950s and 1960s are peopled with individuals prone to such inspired imaginings: herbert franke and melvin pruitt, jascia reichardt, and the heterogeneous research teams at bell labs such as kenneth knowlton, leon harmon, and dozens of other artists, worked in robotics, electronics, video, visual and audio signal processing, or the use of new technology that engaged combinatoric or permutational methods for production of poetry, prose, music, or other works. the legacy of this work remains active. digital art-making exists in all disciplines and genres, often hybridized with traditional approaches in ways that integrate procedural methods and material production. one of the most sustained and significant projects in this spirit is harold cohen's aaron project. as a demonstration of artificial aesthetics, an attempt to encode artistic creativity in several levels of instructions, aaron is a highly developed instance of generative work. aaron was first conceived in 1973, and not surprisingly its first iteration corresponded to artificial vision research at the time. the conviction that perceptual processes, if sufficiently understood, would provide a basis for computational models predominated in research done by such pioneers as david marr in the 1970s. only as this work progressed did researchers realize that perceptual processing of visual information had to be accompanied by higher-order cognitive representations. merely understanding "perception" was inadequate. cognitive schemata possessed of the capacity for emerging complexity must also be factored into the explanation of the way vision worked. the attitude that pervades information design as a field is almost entirely subsumed by notions that data pre-exist display, and that the task of visual form-giving is merely to turn a cognitive exercise into a perceptual one. while the value of intelligent information design in the interpretation of statistical data can't be overestimated, and dismissing the importance of this activity would be ridiculous, the limits of this approach also have to be pointed out. why? because they circumscribe the condition of knowledge in their apparent suggestion that information exists independently of visual presentation and just waits for the "best" form in which it can be represented. many of the digital humanists i've encountered treat graphic design as a kind of accessorizing exercise, a dressing-up of information for public presentation after the real work of analysis has been put into the content model, data structure, or processing algorithm. arguing against this attitude requires rethinking of the way embodiment gives rise to information in a primary sense. speculative computing is a technical term, fully compatible with the mechanistic reason of technological operations. it refers to the anticipation of probable outcomes along possible forward branches in the processing of data. speculation is used to maximize efficient performance. by calculating the most likely next steps, it speeds up processing. unused paths are discarded as new possibilities are calculated. speculation doesn't eliminate options, but, as in any instance of gambling, the process weights the likelihood of one path over another in advance of its occurrence. speculation is a mathematical operation unrelated to metaphysics or narrative theory, grounded in probability and statistical assessments. logic-based, and quantitative, the process is pure techne, applied knowledge, highly crafted, and utterly remote from any notion of poiesis or aesthetic expression. metaphorically, speculation invokes notions of possible worlds spiraling outward from every node in the processing chain, vivid as the rings of radio signals in the old rko studios film logo. to a narratologist, the process suggests the garden of forking paths, a way to read computing as a tale structured by nodes and branches. i want to focus here on some specific qualities and tools of temporal modeling, especially as they relate to the embeddedness of subjectivity, uncertainty, and interpretation in every act of representation, which we take as a special province of speculative computing. our very process of design self-consciously embodies this orientation toward information and software engineering. we make every effort to work from imagery as much as from ontology, coupling our research efforts in the philosophy and data-driven classification of temporal relations with the intuitive and experimental work of artists of whom we asked questions such as: "what does a slow day look like? " or "how might you paint anticipation or regret? " as our underlying architecture became more stable and we began to assemble a preliminary notation system for temporal objects and inflections, we made a practice of asking of each sketch we floated, "what does this imply? " and "what relationships might it express? a model is an interpretative expression of a particular dataset. more importantly, it is what the interpreter says it is at any given oint in time. we find the flexibility inherent in this mode of operation akin to the p intuitive and analytical work of the traditional humanities at its best. nowsliding is the subjective positioning of the self along a temporal axis and in relation to the points, events, intervals, and inflections through which we classify experience and make time meaningful. you nowslide when you picture your world at the present moment and, some ticks of the clock later, again at another ever-evolving present. you nowslide, too, when you imagine and project the future or interpret and recall the past. our toolset allows a graphic literalization of this subjective positioning and temporal imagining, in the shape of configurable, evolving timelines whose content and form at any given "moment" are dependent on the position of a sliding icon, representative of the subjective viewpoint. multiple independent or interdependent points of view are possible within the context of a single set of data, and the visual quality of nowsliding may be specified in the construction of a particular model. humanists are already skilled at the abstract classification and encoding that data modeling requires. we understand algorithmic work and can appreciate the transformative and revelatory power of visual and structural deformance. we at least think we know what to do with a picture or a graph. what we haven't yet tried in a rigorous and systematic way is the injection of the subjective positioning any act of interpretation both requires and embodies into a computational, self-consciously visual environment. if speculative computing has a contribution to make to the methods and outcomes of digital humanities, this is it. abstractly, the pre-play level in chess is always the same. however, a real player must devise a set of rules for seeing pre-play and play potential, and those heuristic rules can change and indeed should change as the player improves. at the moment, it would seem that programmers of chess machines, which do great things through brute search algorithms, have not yet addressed this further level of chess prowess, that rule-changing creativity that allows players to improve or, while playing chess, to play more than just chess. art, like religion, is a window onto something beyond, though we know not what. the work of art entices us beyond who we are and what we understand, and we are left floating, like manly, in a space defined only by the fact that it is new; one step beyond who we were, somewhere we thought we could not possibly be. the pleasure and the importance of art is perhaps that move up the meta organization of our understanding, to a more general space that gives us a different, if not a better insight into the world. designing complex, sustainable digital humanities projects and publications requires familiarity with both the research subject and available technologies. it is essential that the scholar have a clear and explicit understanding of his intellectual objectives and the resources to be used in achieving them. at the same time, the scholar must have sufficient comprehension of available technologies, in order to judge their suitability for representing and exploiting the resources in a manner that best serves his intellectual objectives. given the dual expertise required, scholars frequently find it necessary to collaborate with technologists in the design and implementation processes, who bring different understandings, experience, and expertise to the work. collaboration in and of itself may present challenges, since most humanists generally work alone and share the research's results, not the process. collaborative design involves iterative analysis and definition, frequently accompanied by prototype implementations that test the accuracy and validity of the analysis. while computers enable sophisticated data processing and manipulation to produce desired results, the scholar must analyze, define, and represent the data in detail. each data component and each relation between data components needs to be identified, and, when represented in the computer, named and circumscribed. data must not simply be entered into a computer, but be accompanied by additional data that identify the data components. this decomposition is necessary to instruct the computer, through programs or applications, to process the data to achieve the objectives, a process of locating, identifying, and manipulating the data. focusing on achieving particular short-term results may also lead to neglecting consideration of the durability or persistence of the content and its publication. ongoing changes in computer technology present long-term challenges. changes in both applications and the data notations with which they work will require replacing one version of an application with another, or with an entirely different application, and will eventually require migrating the data from one notation to another. generally these changes do not have a major impact in the first four or five years of a project, and thus may not seem significant to projects that are intended to be completed within three or four years. most researchers and creators, though, will want their work to be available for at least a few years after completion. if a project has or will have a publisher, the publisher will certainly want it to remain viable as long as it has a market. the cultural heritage community, important participants in scholarly communication, may judge a publication to have cultural value for future generations. human resources must be devoted to the design, prototyping, and, ultimately, implementation. once implemented, more resources are needed to maintain a project's infrastructure. data production and maintenance also require human resources. data needs to be identified, collected, and analyzed; created, and maintained in machine-readable form; and reviewed for accuracy and consistency. realizing complex, detailed objectives requires complex, detailed implementations, production methods, and, frequently, a high degree of data differentiation. as a general rule, the more detailed and complex a project becomes, the more time it will take to design, implement, populate with data, and maintain. thus every objective comes with costs, and the costs frequently have to be weighed against the importance of the objective. some objectives, while worthwhile, may simply be too expensive. design is a complex exercise: given this complexity, the design process is iterative, and each iteration leads progressively to a coherent, integrated system. it is quite impossible to simultaneously consider all factors. both the whole and the parts must be considered in turn, and each from several perspectives. consideration of each in turn leads to reconsideration of the others, with ongoing modifications and adjustments. prototyping of various parts to test economic, intellectual, and technological feasibility is important. it is quite common to find an apparent solution to a particular problem while considering one or two factors but to have it fail when other factors are added, requiring it to be modified or even abandoned. good design, then, requires a great deal of persistence and patience. humanists study human artifacts, attempting to understand, from a particular perspective and within a specific context, what it means to be human. the term artifact is used here in the broadest sense: an artifact is any object created by humans. artifacts may be primary objects of interest or serve as evidence of human activities, events, and intentions. archivists make a useful distinction between an object intentionally created, as an end in itself, and an object that is a by-product of human activities, the object typically functioning instrumentally as a means or tool. novels, poems, textbooks, paintings, films, sculptures, and symphonies are created as ends in themselves. court records, birth certificates, memoranda, sales receipts, deeds, and correspondence facilitate or function as a means to other objectives, or as evidence or a record of particular actions taken. after serving their intended purpose, instrumental artifacts primarily function as evidence. artifacts that are ends in themselves may of course also function as evidence. a novel, for example, may be viewed as a literary object, with particular aesthetic and intellectual qualities, or a source of evidence for language usage or for identifying important cultural values in a particular historical context. many disciplines share an interest in the same or similar objects or have similar assumptions and methods. linguists and students of literature may share an interest in written texts, perhaps even literary texts, but differ substantially in what characteristics of texts are of interest or considered significant. socio-cultural historical studies, while differing widely in the phenomena studied, will nevertheless employ similar methods, with the shared objective of a historical understanding. in order to apply computer technology to humanities research, it is necessary to represent in machine-readable form the artifacts or objects of primary or evidentiary interest in the research, as well as secondary information used in the description, analysis, and interpretation of the objects. the representations must reflect the disciplinary perspective and methods of the researcher, and facilitate the analytic and communication objectives of the project. in addition to perspective and intended uses, the method of representation will depend upon the nature of the artifact to be represented. as modes of human communication, pictorial materials, printed texts, mathematical formulae, tabular data, sound, film, sculptures, buildings, and maps, to name a few possible artifact types, all have distinct observable characteristics or features, and representations will generally isolate and emphasize those deemed essential to the research. the power and complexity of computer processing of textual data require complex representation of the text. a simple sequence of characters is of limited utility. in order to take full advantage of computing, textual data must be decomposed into their logical components, with each component identified or named, and its boundaries explicitly or implicitly marked. this decomposition and identification is necessary because sophisticated, accurate, and reliable processing of text is only possible when the computer can be unambiguously instructed to identify and isolate characters and strings of characters and to perform specified operations on them. there are a variety of specialized applications available for recording and performing mathematical operations on , numerical data. there are also a variety of applications available for recording and processing textual data, though most do not have characteristics and features that make them appropriate for sustainable, intellectually complex humanities research. analytic descriptive surrogates will be useful in a wide variety of projects. archaeologists, for example, may be working with thousands of objects. cataloguing these objects involves systematically recording a vast array of details, frequently including highly articulated classification schemes and controlled vocabularies. database technology will almost always be the most appropriate and effective tool for collecting, classifying, comparing, and evaluating artifacts in one or many media. xml is a descriptive or declarative approach to encoding textual information in computers. xml does not provide an off-the-shelf tagset that one can simply take home and apply to a letter, novel, article, or poem. instead, it is a standard grammar for expressing a set of rules according to which a class of documents will be marked up. xml provides conventions for naming the logical components of documents, and a syntax and metalanguage for defining and expressing the logical structure and relations among the components. using these conventions, individuals or members of a community sharing objectives with respect to a particular type of document can work together to encode those documents. developing xml and database encoding schemes, as we have seen, involves consideration of the scholarly perspective, the nature and content of the information to be represented, and its intended use. for example, if we have a collection of texts by several authors, and we want users to be able to locate and identify all texts by a given author, then we must explicitly identify and delimit the author of each text. in the same way, all intended uses must be identified, and appropriate names and structures must be incorporated into the encoding schemes and into the encoded data. in a sense, then, xml and database encoding schemes represent the perspective and understanding of their designers, and each dtd or schema is an implied argument about the nature of the material under examination and the ways in which we can use it. specifying an intended use requires identifying and defining users and user communities. the researcher is an obvious user. in fact, the researcher might be the only user, if the intention is to facilitate collection and analysis of data, with analytic results and interpretation published separately. such an approach, though, deprives readers of access to the resources and methods used, and there is an emerging consensus that one of the great benefits of computers and networks is that they allow us to expose our evidence and our methods to evaluation and use by others. if that is considered desirable, design must then take other users into consideration. as a general rule, the narrower and more specific the intended audience, the easier it will be to identify and define the uses of the data. if the intended audience is more broadly defined, it is useful to classify the users and uses according to educational and intellectual levels and abilities. querying, simply characterized, involves users submitting words, phrases, dates, and the like, to be matched against data, with matched data or links to matched data returned, typically in an ordered list, to the user. browsing is a type of querying; though the author of the research collection predetermines the query and thus the list of results returned. rendering is the process by which machine-readable information is transformed into human-readable information. all information represented in computers, whether text, graphic, pictorial, or sound, must be rendered. some rendering is straightforward, with a direct relation between the machine-readable data and its humanreadable representation. navigational apparatus are roughly analogous to the title page, table of contents, and other information provided in the preliminaries of a book. they inform the user of the title of the research collection, its intellectual content, scope, and organization, and provide paths or a means to access and traverse subcollections and individual texts, graphics, pictures, videos, or sound files. determining and defining the querying, rendering, and navigational functions to be provided to users should not be an exclusively abstract or imaginative exercise. many designers of publicly accessible information employ user studies to inform and guide the design process. aesthetics play an important role in communication. much of the traditional role of publishers involves the aesthetic design of publications. the "look and feel" of digital publications is no less important. while content is undoubtedly more important than form, the effective communication of content is undermined when aesthetics are not taken sufficiently into consideration. researchers may wish to enlist the assistance of professional designers. while formal, professionally designed studies may be beyond the means of most researchers, some attempt at gathering information from users should be made. interface design should not be deferred to the end of the design process. after each resource is digitally captured, the capture file or files may be edited to improve quality and fidelity. one or more derivative files may also be created. digital derivatives may be simply alternative versions. for example, smaller image files may be derived from larger image files through sampling or compression to facilitate efficient internet transmission or to serve different uses. derivatives also may involve alternative representational technologies that enhance the utility or functionality of the information, for example, an xml-encoded text rather than bitmap images of original print materials. creation of enhanced derivatives may constitute the primary research activity, and typically will involve extended analysis and editing of successive versions of files. finally, complex relations within and between files and file components may be identified and explicitly recorded or encoded, and must be managed and controlled to ensure their persistence. all of these activities will require documentation and management that in turn will require recording detailed information. descriptive data function as an intellectual surrogate for an object. descriptive information is needed to identify the intellectual objects used in building as well as objects digitally represented in a research collection. documenting and keeping track of the sources and evidence used in creating a research project is as important in digital research as it is in traditional research. for example, if particular sources are used to create a database that describes individuals and organizations, those sources need to be documented even though they may not be directly accessible in the collection. typically, descriptive information includes author, title, and publisher information and may also contain subject information. when existing traditional media are digitized, it is necessary to describe both the original and its digital representation. while there may be overlapping information, the two objects are distinct manifestations of the same work. traditional media will generally be held in both public repositories and private collections. this is particularly important for unique materials, such as manuscripts and archival records, but also important for copies, such as published books, as copies are in fact unique, even if only in subtle ways. the repositories and collections, even the private collection of the researcher, that hold the resources need to be recorded and related to the description of each resource used or digitized. when interrelated with administrative, file, and relations data, descriptive data serves the dual role of documenting the intellectual content, and attesting to the provenance and thus the authenticity of the sources and their digital derivatives. a wide variety of hardware and software exists for capturing traditional media, and the environmental conditions and context under which capture takes place varies. digital capture always results in some loss of information, even if it enhances access and analytic uses. an image of a page from a book, for example, will not capture the tactile features of the page. hardware and software used in capture differ in quality. each may also, in time, suffer degradation of performance. hardware and software also continue to develop and improve. the environmental conditions that affect capture may also vary. for example, differences in lighting will influence the quality of photographs, ambient noise will influence sound recording. the knowledge and skill of the technician will also affect the results. direct capture devices for image, sound, and video have a variety of options available that will affect both the quality and depth of information captured. while ocr software can be used to convert pixel representations of characters to character representations, manual correction of recognition errors is still necessary. accurate encoding of a text's components requires judgment and manual intervention, even if some encoding is susceptible to machineassisted processing. the agents, methods, and technology used in deriving versions and alternative forms of data need to be recorded and related to each file in order to provide 'the information necessary to evaluate the authenticity and integrity of the derived data. intellectual property law or contract law will protect many of the resources collected and published in a digital humanities research project. use of these materials will require negotiating with the property owners, and subsequently controlling and managing access based on agreements. currently there are several competing initiatives to develop standards for digital rights management, and it is too early to determine which if any will satisfy international laws and be widely embraced by users and developers. there are a wide variety of possible approaches to naming and addressing files. completely arbitrary naming and addressing schemes are infinitely extensible, though it is possible to design simple, extensible schemes that provide some basic and useful clues for those managing the files. for example, most projects will collect representations of many artifacts from many repositories. each artifact may be captured in one or more digital files, with one or more derivative files created from each capture file. in such scenarios, it is important to create records for each repository or collection source. linked to each of these repository records will be records describing each source artifact. in turn, each artifact record will be linked to one or more records describing capture files, with each capture record potentially linked to one or more records describing derivative files. given this scenario, a reasonable file-naming scheme might include an abbreviated identifier for the repository, followed by three numbers separated by periods identifying the artifact, the capture, and the derivative. the file-naming scheme in this example is relatively simple, sustainable, and despite the weak semantics, very useful, even without querying the database. all files derived from artifacts in the same repository will be collocated when sorted, and all related versions of a file will also be collocated. in addition, the order in which artifacts are identified and collected will be reflected in the sorting order of each repository. the example provided here is not intended to be normative. varying patterns of collecting, the nature of the artifacts collected, and other factors might lead to alternative and more appropriate schemes. the important lesson, though, is that database technology is ideally suited to management and control of intellectual and digital assets, and clever naming schemes and directory structures are not. naming schemes should be semantically and structurally simple, with linked database records carrying the burden of detailed descriptive and administrative data. interrelating information is important as both an intellectual and a management activity. interrelating intellectual objects within and between files requires creating explicit machine-readable data that allow automated correlation or collocation of related resources. for our purposes, there are two types of relations: intrinsic and extrinsic. intrinsic relation data support is a feature of the character-based database and markup technologies. database technology enables the creation, maintenance, and use of relations between records or tables within a particular database. xml technology enables the creation, maintenance, and use of relations between components within a particular encoded document. care must be taken in ensuring that the feature is properly employed to ensure the integrity of the relations. extrinsic relations are external to databases and xml-encoded documents. relations between one database and another, between a database and xml documents, between xml documents, between xml documents and files in other notations or encodings, and relations between image or sound files and other image or sound files are all types of extrinsic relations. extrinsic relations are not currently well supported by standards and standard-based software. there are a large number of loosely connected or independent initiatives to address the standardization of extrinsic relations. extrinsic relations thus present particular challenges in the design of digital research collections. especially difficult are relations between resources in the collection under the control of the researcher, and resources under the control of others. in the late twentieth and early twenty-first centuries, the most significant impact of information technology may be increased collaboration. collaboration, when successful, offers many intellectual, professional, and social benefits. a group of scholars working together can create research collections more intellectually complex and comprehensive than is possible for an individual working alone. complementary and even competing disciplinary perspectives and specialties will support broader and richer analysis and understanding. collaboration will enable greater productivity. collaboration between humanists and technologists may lead to more profound understandings and more incisive tools than either would develop by working alone. the explicitness and logical rigor required to represent and use digital information exposes to criticism many of the traditional disciplinary assumptions, and often leads to a deeper understanding of our methods and the subjects to which they are applied. collaboration with technologists may also present its own challenges. although technologists who elect to participate in digital humanities projects may themselves have some background in the humanities, it will more often be the case that technologists have little training in humanities disciplines. humanities methods, perspectives, and values may be strange to them, and unfamiliar terminology may hinder communication. carefully negotiated and apparently shared understandings will frequently be illusory, requiring further discussion and renegotiation. close and successful collaboration will require goodwill and persistence, and will rely on developing a shared language and an enduring mutual understanding. even when a particular individual is in charge, a project manager or administrative assistant may be beneficial, to tend to coordination and monitoring deadlines and the like. finally, collaboration depends on sustainable project design. it is relatively easy for one person to work, in the short run, in an idiosyncratic framework of his or her own design: it is more difficult for two people to do this, and it becomes increasingly difficult the more people are involved, and the longer the project continues. if a project is collaborative, and if it is to succeed, it will require the attributes of standardization, documentation, and thoughtful, iterative design that have been recommended throughout this chapter, in different contexts. the primary source materials for humanists come in many data forms, and the digital capture of that data needs to be carefully considered in relation to its formats and the materials that form the substrates upon which it is carried. it is difficult to list these comprehensively, but it is true to say that anything that can be photographed can be digitized, and that some materials can be photographed or digitized with more fidelity than others. this is an interesting point, as many digitization projects aim to present some kind of "true" representation of the original, and some materials can get closer to this goal than others. there is increasing interest in the digitization of film, video, and sound, and indeed there have been large advances in the techniques available to produce time-based media in borndigital form in the commercial world, and also to digitize analogue originals. the star wars movies are a good example of the historical transition from analogue to digital. the first three movies were filmed totally in analogue and then later digitally remastered; then all the films were made available on dvd. finally, the last film to be made, attack of the clones, was totally filmed in the digital medium. almost any kind of information can be represented in these seemingly simple structures, as patterns of the most intricate complexity can be built up. most primary sources as outlined above are capable of digital representation, and when digital they are susceptible to manipulation, interrogation, transmission, and cross-linking in ways that are beyond the capacity of analogue media. creating an electronic photocopy of a plain page of text is not a complex technical process with modern equipment, but being able to then automatically recognize all the alphanumeric characters it contains, plus the structural layout and metadata elements, is a highly sophisticated operation. alphanumeric symbols are the easiest objects to represent in digital form, and digital text has been around for as long as there have been computers. another aim of digital conversion might be to capture the content of a source without necessarily capturing its form. so an edition of the work of a literary author might be rekeyed and re-edited in electronic form without particular reference to the visual characteristics of an existing print or manuscript version. or, if the aim is to add searchability to a written source while preserving the visual form, text might be converted to electronic form and then attached to the image. if the text has important structural features which need to be encoded in the digital version, and these cannot be captured automatically, or if a definitive edition is to be produced in either print or electronic form from the captured text, then high levels of accuracy are paramount. if, however, retrieval of the information contained within large volumes of text is the desired result, then it may be possible to work with the raw ocr output from scanners, without post-processing. a number of text retrieval products are now available which allow searches to be performed on inaccurate text using "fuzzy matching" techniques. however, at the moment, fuzzy searching will only work with suitable linguistic and contextual dictionaries, and therefore is pretty much limited to the english language. other languages with small populations of speakers are poorly represented, as are pre-1900 linguistic features. an increasing number of projects and institutions are choosing to deliver textual content in digital form through a range of hybrid solutions. the user is presented with a facsimile image of the original for printing and viewing, and attached to each page of the work is a searchable text file. this text file can be produced by rekeying, as in the eebo project described above, or by ocr with or without correction. decisions about the method of production of the underlying text will depend on the condition of the originals and the level of accuracy of retrieval required. with the eebo project, the materials date from the fifteenth to the eighteenth centuries, and they have been scanned from microfilm, so ocr is not a viable option. the anticipated uses, too, envisage detailed linguistic research, which means that retrieval of individual words or phrases will be needed by users. the highest possible level of accuracy is therefore a requirement for this project. the current choices of hardware for digital capture include flatbed scanners, which are used for reflective and transmissive materials. these can currently deliver up to 5,000 dpi, but can cost tens of thousands of dollars, so most projects can realistically only afford scanners in the high-end range of 2,400 to 3,000 dpi. bespoke 35 mm film scanners, which are used for transmissive materials such as slides and film negatives, can deliver up to 4,000 dpi. drum scanners may also be considered as they can deliver much higher relative resolutions and quality, but they are generally not used in this context as the process is destructive to the original photographic transparency and the unit cost of creation is higher. digital cameras can be used for any kind of material, but are generally recommended for those materials not suitable for scanning with flatbed or film scanners: tightly bound books or manuscripts, art images, three-dimensional objects such as sculpture or architecture. the actual methods of operation of scanning equipment vary, and it is not the intention of this chapter to give details of such methodologies. there are a number of books which give general advice, and hardware manufacturers have training manuals and online help. anyone who wishes to learn digital capture techniques in detail is advised to seek out professional training through their own institution, or from one of the specialist organizations offering courses: some of these are listed in the bibliography at the end of this chapter. it is vitally important that projects and individuals give a great deal of thought to this documentation of data right from the start. having archive-quality digital master files is useless if the filenames mean nothing to anyone but the creator, and there is no indication of date of creation, file format, type of compression, etc. such information is known as technical or administrative metadata. descriptive metadata refers to the attributes of the object being described and can be extensive: attributes such as: "title," "creator," "subject," "date," "keywords," "abstract," etc. in fact, many of the things that would be catalogued in a traditional cataloguing system. if materials are being captured by professional studios or bureaux, then some administrative and technical metadata will probably be added at source. or it may be possible to request or supply project-specific metadata. descriptive metadata can only be added by experts who understand the nature of the source materials, and it is an intellectually challenging task in itself to produce good descriptive metadata. at one time an important text tool that one would have described in an article such as this would have been the word processor. today, however, the word processor has become ubiquitous both inside and outside the academy and it is no longer necessary to describe its benefits or categorize its applications. today many people believe that the world wide web can be at the center of computing for humanists, and much discussion has focused on the significance of presenting materials on the www for a worldwide audience. although some of the tools i will describe here could greatly facilitate the preparation of materials for the www, i will not be writing very much about html or the significance of using it. instead, this article will focus on tools that can manipulate texts in ways that might usefully support the development of scholarship on those texts rather than merely prepare and present them. not surprisingly, given their very different origins, the two groups present very different challenges to the humanities researcher who is beginning to use them. the first group of tools, generally designed to support text analysis, are relatively straightforward to understand once one is operating within a tightly defined problem domain. the general-purpose tools, however, are not so easily categorized, and can perform a very broad range of tasks on a text. because they are not focused on a specific problem domain, as the "text analysis" tools are, they contain very abstract components, and the difficulty for the beginner is to understand whether, and then how, these abstract elements can be applied to any particular problem. there are several xslt processors available that run separately from a browser. to use one of them you would give your xml document and xslt stylesheet to it, and it would save results of the transformation into a file on your hard disk. html files generated this way would then be made available using any web server, and by transforming the documents in html before serving them, you allow any web browser to view them. the two most widely used xslt processors are saxon and xalan. both these xslt processors are most readily run on a windows machine from the dos prompt. you will need to be familiar with the basics of a dos window in order to be able to use these processors effectively. certainly, xslt, perl, and tustep are complex and powerful systems. certain kinds of useful results can be achieved with a modest amount of work, but learning to use any of them both efficiently and to their full potential will commit the learner to a process that could take years to complete. often reviews of software for the humanities talk about "user friendliness. " are these tools "user-friendly? " if you mean, "are they immediately usable," then the answer is "no. " however, are a good set of carpentry tools user-friendly? they are if you are skilled in their use. in a similar way, these tools can do significant work on texts, but all of them require a significant amount of skill to make use of them. he produced, as he spoke, what seemed a jewel box. . . . this case of ebony the artist opened, and bade annie place her fingers on its edge. she did so, but almost screamed as a butterfly fluttered forth, and, alighting on her finger's tip, sat waving the ample magnificence of its purple and gold-speckled wings, as if in prelude to a flight. it is impossible to express by words the glory, the splendor, the delicate gorgeousness which were softened into the beauty of this object. nature's ideal butterfly was here realized in all its perfection; not in the pattern of such faded insects as flit among earthly flowers, but of those which hover across the meads of paradise for child-angels and the spirits of departed infants to disport themselves with. the rich down was visible upon its wings; the lustre of its eyes seemed instinct with spirit. we see this in markup languages such as sgml and xml, when data tagged with a descriptive schema are then rendered with external stylesheets. or if not stylesheets then so-called "skins," which allow different visual themes to be swapped in and out of a web page or desktop application. with the appropriate skins a generic mp3 application can be dressed to look like a jukebox or a crystal radio or in a thousand other guises. likewise, a site called the css zen garden offers a striking demonstration of the power of stylesheets to represent the "same" underlying content in a dazzling array of different configurations. moreover, as noted earlier, interface is recursive: thus , we can use stylesheets to skin our data, skins to thematize our browsers and applications, and desktop themes to stylize our information spaces. do we not then see interface and application cleaving apart in precisely the ways laurel and gelernter speak against? in the meantime, in the digital humanities, where we deal with the rich and varied legacy of cultural heritage, we ought to think about what it means to be artists of the beautiful ourselves. as we will see in the next section, however, being an artist isn't always easy. their site may be complete and accurate, but it is not particularly easy to use, and it's chockfull of all the ridiculous trappings of the scholarly profession. while such things certainly have their place, they can also interfere with the appreciation of the actual work itself. on the other hand, this site is the only place you're going to find this many of the illuminated books in forms you can actually read. . . . and it, too is a work in progress, so it will only be getting better; especially when we all have broadband connections. the problem was that users who wished to view the images of a work in sequence were forced to scroll down the page to examine the image and perhaps work with the transcription, enlargement, or other associated features, and then scroll back up again to where the "previous" and "next" links were located. moreover, the long vertical profile of the page meant that its top and bottom halves could not both be kept on-screen at the same time. this turned out to be particularly awkward in classroom settings, where the instructor was forced to do much scrolling upwards and downwards in order present students with a sequential series of images. the arrows situated in the lower portion of the screen now alleviate that extraneous scrolling, a simple design solution to a more or less straightforward usability problem. the technologies we work with at the wba thus constantly make their presence felt, visibly and palpably pushing back against the interface we attempt to enfold around them. this situation is particularly acute in the digital humanities, where necessity often dictates that we adopt and adapt tools and technologies that were originally developed for other needs and audiences. if, as i suggested earlier, interface design is a dialectic between the competing demands of human and machine, then the art and science of usability lies in striking a balance between the two. the electronic enterprises themselves hold danger: it is painfully easy to choose the wrong preferred technology for an audience or discipline by misunderstanding their readiness for new technology or misreading their desire for alternative presentation modes. or choose the wrong technology for material by force-fitting new tools on old content, or locking older accommodations to print restrictions into new presentations. or choose the wrong technology for a changing environment and by so doing lock the content into a non-adaptive format. or spend the publication budget on cutting-edge culde-sac software, or confuse "cool" with "valuable," or conflate readers with purchasers, or audience with customer, such as by presuming that by developing a site aimed at students to promote one's texts, one can entice the libraries serving those markets to purchase what their readers are acquiring for free. or depend overly much on the novelty value of e-publishing, and believe that simply by building it, you will attract business. any single one of these threatens to either beggar the publisher or compromise the project, and shouts "danger! " to most publishers. " as users and creators of scholarly communication, we must carefully assess what qualities we want to maintain from the current system, and be sure that we create evolutionary pressures that encourage a "scholarly communication biosystem" which serves scholarship well. finally, we provide a business motivator that can justify underwriting the development of publishing enhancements. since 1999, the nap has underwritten the development of "special collections" software, the development of novel search and information discovery projects, and much more. these sorts of tools are justified because, on our website, they do a better job of engaging the value of our unique resources to readers. we want to promote that value, because any researcher might be the one visitor in two hundred who might decide to buy the book. but it would be a mistake to see digital libraries as primarily providing ways to access material more quickly or more easily, without having to visit a repository across the country. though the promise of digital technology in almost any field has been to let one do the same things one did before but better and faster, the more fundamental result has often been the capability of doing entirely new things. it is very possible that digital libraries will enable future humanities scholars to engage in new activities that we haven't yet envisioned. most libraries also incorporate the component of stewardship over a collection. for some libraries, this is primarily a matter of reshelving and circulation control. but for most libraries, this includes a serious preservation function over at least a portion of their collection. for research libraries and special collections, preservation is a significant portion of their core responsibilities, but even school, public, and special libraries are usually responsible for maintaining a core collection of local records and works over long periods of time. librarians believe strongly in equal access to information. librarians traditionally see themselves as providing information to those who cannot afford to pay for that information on the open market. and the american library association even mounted a court challenge to the communications decency act because it prevented library users from accessing information that they could access from venues outside the library. librarians have been in the forefront of the struggle against the privatizing of us government information on the grounds that those steps would limit the access of people who could not afford to pay for it. for example, imagine a book that is composed of hundreds of digital files, each one the scan of a single book page. structural metadata are needed for users to perform the normal behaviors they might expect from a book. users will expect to be able to view the table of contents, then jump to a particular chapter. as they read through that chapter, they will expect to turn the page, and occasionally go back to re-read the previous page. when they come to a citation, they will want to jump to the bibliography to read the citation, then jump back. and when they come to a footnote marker, they may want to jump to where they can read the footnote contents, then jump back. these are all just normal behaviors we expect from any type of book, but these behaviors all require structural metadata. administrative metadata maintain the information necessary in order to keep a digital work accessible over time. in the case of a digitized book, the administrative metadata would note all the individual files needed to assemble the book, where the files were located, and what file formats and applications software would be necessary in order to view the book or its individual pages. administrative metadata become particularly important when moving files to a new server, or engaging in activities related to digital longevity such as refreshing or migration. finally, in the move towards constructing digital libraries, we need to remember that libraries are not merely collections of works. they have both services and ethical traditions and values that are a critical part of their functions. libraries interoperate with each other to serve the information needs of a variety of different user groups today, and expect to sustain themselves and their collections so that they can serve users 100 years from now. they defend their users' rights to access content, and to do so with some degree of privacy or anonymity. the digital collections being built will not truly be digital libraries until they incorporate a significant number of these services and ethical traditions. preservation is also vitally important for the growth of an intellectual field and the professional development of its practitioners. advances in a field require that there be ease of communication between its practitioners and that the barriers to research and publishing be as low as possible within a system that values peer review and widespread sharing and vetting of ideas. digital technologies have radically lowered the barriers of communication between colleagues, and between teachers and students. before e-mail, it was not easy to keep current with one's colleagues in distant locations; and before listservs and search engines it was hard to learn about the work others were doing or to hunt down interesting leads in fields related to one's own. those who aspire to make a mark in the humanities may be attracted to new technologies to advance their research agenda, but those who also aspire to make a career in the humanities now feel hampered by the barriers to electronic publishing, peer review, and reward for work in advanced humanities computing. the preservation and access trade-offs for digital information are similar to those for analogue. to make an informed decision about how to preserve a embrittled book whose pages are crumbling or spine is broken, for example, one must weigh the relative merits of aggressive and expensive conservation treatment to preserve the book as an artifact, versus the less expensive option of reformatting the book's content onto microfilm or scanning it, losing most of the information integral to the artifact as physical object in the process. one always needs to identify the chief values of a given resource to decide between a number of preservation options. in this case, the question would be whether one values the artifactual or the informational content more highly. this consideration would apply equally in the digital realm: some of the technologies described above will be cheaper, more easily automated, and in that sense more scalable over time than others. migration appears to be suitable for simpler formats in which the look and feel matters less and in which loss of information at the margins is an acceptable risk. the other approaches have not been tested yet in large scale over several decades, but the more options we have for ensuring persistence, the likelier we are to make informed decisions about what we save and how. there is no silver bullet for preserving digital information, and that may turn out to be good news in the long run. this is in sharp contrast to the more straightforward world of books, photographs, or maps, where one can preserve the artifact without having to catalogue it first. boxes of unsorted and undescribed sources can languish for years before being discovered, and once described or catalogued, they can have a productive life as a resource. although fully searchable text could, in theory, be retrieved without much metadata in the future, it is hard to imagine how a complex or multimedia digital object that goes into storage of any kind could ever survive, let alone be discovered and used, if it were not accompanied by good metadata. this creates very large up-front costs for digital preservation, both in time and money, and it is not yet clear who is obligated to assume those costs. regardless of the outcome, it seems clear that those who create intellectual property in digital form need to be more informed about what is at risk if they ignore longevity issues at the time of creation. this means that scholars should be attending to the information resources crucial to their fields by developing and adopting the document standards vital for their research and teaching, with the advice of preservationists and computer scientists where appropriate. the examples of computing-intensive sciences such as genomics that have developed professional tracks in informatics might prove fruitful for humanists as more and more computing power is applied to humanistic inquiry and pedagogy. such a function would not be entirely new to the humanities; in the nineteenth century, a large number of eminent scholars became heads of libraries and archives in an age when a scholar was the information specialist par excellence. to the extent that the pursuit of knowledge in any field builds upon the work of others, the chain of reference and ease of linking to reference sources are crucial. whose responsibility is it to maintain the persistence of links in an author's article or a student's essay? somehow, we expect the question of persistence to be taken care of by some vital but invisible infrastructure, not unlike the water that comes out of the tap when we turn the knob. clearly, that infrastructure does not yet exist. but even if it did, there are still nagging issues about persistence that scholars and researchers need to resolve, such as the one known as "versioning," or deciding which iteration of a dynamic and changing resource should be captured and curated for preservation. this is a familiar problem to those who work in broadcast media, and digital humanists can profit greatly from the sophisticated thinking that has gone on in audiovisual archives for generations. in the sciences, there are several interesting models of digital information being created, curated, and preserved by members of the discipline, among which arxiv. org is surely the best known. this model appears difficult to emulate in the humanities because arts and humanities disciplines do not create shared information resources that are then used by many different research teams. nevertheless, where redundant collections, such as journals and slide libraries, exist across many campuses, subscription-based services are being developed to provide access to and preserve those resources through digital surrogates. examples include jstor, amigo, and artstor, now under development. the economies of scale can be achieved only if the libraries and museums that subscribe to these services believe that the provider will persistently manage the digital surrogates and that they are therefore able to dispose of extra copies of journals or slides. all this means that, as creators and consumers of digital information, humanists are vitally interested in digital preservation, both for digital resources and for the abundance of valuable but physically fragile analogue collections that must rely on digitization. given the extraordinary evanescence of digital information, it is crucial now for them to engage the copyright issues, to develop the economic models for building and sustaining the core infrastructure that will support persistent access, and, most proximate to their daily lives, to ensure that students and practitioners of the humanities are appropriately trained and equipped to conduct research, write up results for dissemination, and enable a new generation of students to engage in the open-ended inquiry into culture that is at the core of the humanistic enterprise. in this article, after clarifying the goals and nature of qualitative research, we support the previous claims by providing an overview of some prominent studies that have contributed to understanding people with disabilities and characteristics of services developed to meet their needs. next, we delineate techniques that can be used to ensure that qualitative research is credible. we then present quality indicators that qualitative researchers need to address to make sure our work meets high scholarly standards. finally, we include an overview of the ways three recent qualitative studies do provide evidence that can be used to inform policy and practice. qualitative studies explore attitudes, opinions, and beliefs of a number of parties involved in special education as well as the general public, and examine personal reactions to special education contexts and teaching strategies. descriptions about settings conducive to productive learning outcomes or life circumstances also are of value. qualitative designs can trace and document certain teaching and learning effects. they can explore the nature and extent to which a practice has a constructive impact on individuals with disabilities, their families, or on settings where they tend to work, reside, or be educated. nevertheless, at the beginning of this article, we asserted that qualitative work can be empirical and can produce knowledge if research tools are used in a systematic and informed manner. that is, we claim that qualitative studies can produce scientifically sound evidence that informs policy and practice. qualitative research is not done for purposes of generalization but rather to produce evidence based on the exploration of specific contexts and particular individuals. it is expected that readers will see similarities to their situations and judge the relevance of the information produced to their own circumstances. because we make no claims that we can create universal and essential knowledge for policy or offer universal prescriptions for practice, we instead describe research projects to show how their results can inform policymakers and practitioners. in providing this brief overview of the complex genre of qualitative research, we have tried to make the case that qualitative research has contributed to the fields of special education and disabilities and will continue to have an impact. without being overly rigid and prescriptive, we have listed a range of qualitative studies and have outlined ways that studies can be conducted so that they are credible and trustworthy. we have detailed the quality indicators that might be used to develop, conduct, and evaluate qualitative work. we want to join with the authors of the other articles in this special issue to assert that various research designs are needed to answer various research questions. as qualitative researchers, we believe our own qualitative studies as well as those of our special education colleagues should be validated as providing necessary evidence for practice and policy development. two distinct forms of noise arise from the readout process and affect nanomechanical measurements. the first, measurement noise, is independent of the resonator and is added to the output signal. in practice, this contribution may take the form of electrical or photon shot noise. the second is the somewhat more subtle back-action noise, which emanates from the readout and drives the resonator stochastically. back-action noise might arise from fluctuating potentials or currents that are, in turn, converted by the transducer into physical forces subsequently imposed on the mechanical device. electrical engineers are familiar with these two forms of noise from linear amplifiers and represent them as voltage and current noise, respectively. optimally engineered coupling between the resonator and the amplifier is achieved when the two amplifier noise contributions are equal. but very few linear amplifiers, even when optimized in this way, can approach the quantum limit. accordingly, reaching the quantum limit for position detection involves choosing an amplifier that is capable of quantumlimited detection in principle, and that can be optimally coupled to the mechanical resonator in practice. in this article, the authors provide an argument for future directions for teacher education, based on a re-conceptualization of teaching. the authors argue that teacher educators need to attend to the clinical aspects of practice and experiment with how best to help novices develop skilled practice. taking clinical practice seriously will require teacher educators to add pedagogies of enactment to an existing repertoire of pedagogies of reflection and investigation. in order to make this shift, the authors contend that teacher educators will need to undo a number of historical divisions that underlie the education of teachers. these include the curricular divide between foundations and methods courses, as well as the separation between the university and schools. finally, the authors propose that teacher education be organized around a core set of practices in which knowledge, skill, and professional identity are developed in the process of learning to practice during professional education. teaching as a complex practice one of the challenges faced by efforts to gain professional status for teachers is that teaching is complex work that looks deceptively simple. having spent considerable time in classrooms, parents and policymakers have had ample opportunities to observe classroom teaching. and in their roles as parents, lay teachers in religious schools, leaders of boy or girl scouts troops, employers, etc. most of them have taught others. an argument for the complexity of classroom teaching thus requires an analysis of what differentiates the kind of informal teaching human beings engage in all the time from the instructional activity that occurs primarily in classrooms. in this article, we argue that teacher educators need to attend to the clinical aspects of practice and experiment with how best to help novices develop skilled practice. taking clinical practice seriously will require us to add pedagogies of enactment to our existing repertoire of pedagogies of reflection and investigation. in order to make this shift, we also argue that teacher educators will need to undo a number of historical divisions that underlie the education of teachers. these include the curricular divide between foundations and methods courses, as well as the separation between the university and schools. finally, we propose that teacher education be organized around a core set of practices for teaching that novices are helped to develop during professional education. we propose this not as a fully developed model for teacher education programs, but rather as a set of emerging and provocative ideas for rethinking how we prepare novice teachers. directions for teacher education organizing around core practices shifting teacher education from a curriculum organized by knowledge domains to a curriculum organized around practices of the profession will require at least two fundamental shifts on the part of teacher educators: first, teacher educators must work to develop programs that undo the historical separation between foundation and methods courses; second, teacher educators must focus upon helping novices develop and refine a set of core practices for teaching. such shifts will require changes in focus both at the pedagogical and organizational level of teacher education. for example, in helping novices develop routines to help students work together, teacher educators might have student teachers assign and explain differentiated roles for participating in a scientific presentation and then practice how to intervene to support students in enacting these roles. other approximations of practice could include activities related to anticipating student understanding. for example, one could imagine new teachers transcribing a classroom discussion and annotating the text with their interpretations of student comments, questions they as teachers might ask the students in order to help them articulate ideas more fully in order to confirm or disconfirm these interpretations. student teachers might then be asked to write up a memo or short report on what the pupil seemed to understand, as well as areas of struggle and challenge, and recommendations for future in-class support or action with the student. while this practice draws upon many aspects traditionally taught in teacher education, such as a perspective on reading to construct meaning, an understanding of how children develop phonological and phonemic awareness, and oral fluency and comprehension, it brings these concepts to bear upon a particular strategy teachers could use immediately as new teachers. in doing so, teacher educators will have to participate in difficult discussions and decisions about what features of the current course curriculum can be set aside in an effort to focus more intently on a set of agreed upon practices. this may not require a complete dismantling of the course structure, but will likely require teacher educators to retrain themselves to consider the possibility that less coursework may lead to more learning for students. it may also require them to work together not only behind the closed doors of program meetings, but in the context of their own teaching as they consider in public, with preservice teachers, how perspectives from different areas such as multicultural education and mathematics methods, for example, are brought to bear in helping novices learn to orchestrate mathematical discussions. if teaching is indeed a complex practice, and not something that individuals will naturally develop on their own, then teacher educators must develop new approaches for preparing ordinary people, in an extraordinarily brief amount of time, to be prepared for the challenge. organizing professional education around a core set of practices would challenge many of the existing structures within teacher education. as suggested above, teacher educators would need to develop their roles as clinical educators, able not only to profess about teaching, in the abstract, but also to provide the kind of skilled feedback and coaching that enables novices to improve. we would move away from a curriculum that symbolizes the separation of theory and practice through its division into foundations and methods courses toward a curriculum that puts practice at the center of all endeavors. several studies established that training in special needs education positively influences the attitudes of teachers. the results of these studies indicate that teachers who received training hold more positive attitudes towards inclusive education compared with teachers who received less training. furthermore, several studies revealed that teachers are most negative about the inclusion of pupils with learning disabilities, behaviour problems and cognitive disabilities. in contrast, teachers are the most positive about the inclusion of pupils with physical disabilities and pupils with sensory impairments. introduction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2 uae energy system . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . wave and tidal energy options are very limited, although the possibility of using sea-currents needs to be investigated further as anecdotal evidence indicate strong currents present on the coast of the gulf of oman. finally, the option of using the deep cold layers of the gulf of oman waters for cooling of the nearby cities could also be considered. it assumes that what people think about feelings they will eventually actually feel. the stearnses were here astutely picking up on some sociological theories of the 1970s and 1980s. the sociologist arlie hochschild, for example, was arguing that society could and did control emotions and their expression, that there were "feeling rules," or "emotion rules" that told people, in essence, how to feel and how to express those utterly socially mandated feelings. 13 hochschild argued that airline stewardesses learned at training schools not only to smile but to feelpleasant when travelers yelled at them. she called this the "managed heart. " the stearnses wanted to look at the managed hearts of the past. but it turned out to be a very shallow past. for how do you get at the "emotional standards" of a society? the stearnses' answer: by looking at popular advice manuals. the stearnses explicitly rule out courtly love literature as an emotionology, for example, because it "simply did not penetrate far enough into popular culture or into institutional arrangements to count as a genuine emotionology. "16 but if courtly love literature, written in the vernacular and sung orally by troubadours in the south of france and by other poets elsewhere, must be considered simply part of "intellectual history," then virtually nothing from the premodern period can be considered true emotionology. this is why in a review of jean delumeau's sin and fearpeter stearns took the book to task: "the fact that christian preachers reached out to urge and play upon the terror of death receives important new documentation in this study, but their degree of success remains oddly elusive. this is top down history at its worst. " and "laypeople figure relatively rarely. " finally, the cutting blow: "the results do not fully escape the more limited confines of intellectual history. in the united states, modern emotions history tends to fall into two groups: studies concerned with the formation of the "affective family" and those interested in "honorbased" societies the deep south in the united states and mediterranean cultures in europe. 38 historians of the affective family tend to claim that in the middle ages and early modern period the family was cold and loveless; only in the eighteenth century did the loving family unit emerge. the notion of the affectless family does not contradict the vision of overwrought emotionalism in the middle ages, because the love involved in the affective family unit is understood to be tamped down, restrained, and unwavering. in this view, the pre-modern family was at best a calculated social institution for reproduction and at worst a theater of violent outbursts. by contrast, the modern family is sentimental. 39 the south, whether of europe or of the united states, has also inspired emotions history. edward muir's mad blood stirring is a remarkably sophisticated example of the elias paradigm at work. there is a clear theoretical underpinning for the grand narrative. it is a particular model of the emotions, one that prevailed when huizinga, febvre, bloch, and elias were writing and that prevails today in our very language and in popular conceptions of the emotions. this is the "hydraulic" model: the emotions are like great liquids within each person, heaving and frothing, eager to be let out. the model in fact largely derives from medieval medical notions of the humors. 59 but it also accords with theories of energy that were up-to-date when darwin and freud were writing. charles darwin, like other scientists of his day, postulated a "nerve-force" that was liberated "in intense sensations," among them emotions. freud talked of impulses that could be deflected, repressed, or sublimated but, unless given outlet, would never cease to press forward. 60 the hydraulic view meshes with how emotions feel to us and how those feelings are embedded in our language: "he flipped his lid"; "i couldn't overcome my sadness"; "he channeled his anger into something constructive. such a theory whether learned or folk assumes that emotions are universal. insofar as it recognizes a history, it encourages a "binary" one in which emotions are either "on" or "off" depending on social, superego, or individually willed restraints. the hydraulic view lies behind the grand narrative, validating its search for a turning point based on restraint. however, this model is no longer tenable. in the 1960s, it was dethroned in most scientific circles, its place taken by two new theories, both resolutely non-hydraulic. 62 in the cognitive view, emotions are part of a process of perception and appraisal, not forces striving for release. denying that emotions are irrational, cognitive psychologists see them as resulting from judgments about "weal or woe" that is, about whether something is likely to be good or harmful, pleasurable or painful, as perceived by each individual. 63 in brief eliding all the variant emphases of different theorists the process begins with the judgment or "appraisal. romagnoli, tom rosenwein, daniel smail, stephen d. white, and members of the ahr board of editors for reading and commenting on this article in draft. at the behest of allen frantzen, i presented one version of it as a lecture for the loyola medieval studies program; i would like to thank him, theresa gross-diaz, and other members of the audience. finally, i thank my graduate students kirstin devries, frances mitilineos, jilana ordman, david roufs, and sonya seifert for cheerfully worrying the topic with me throughout a year-long course. the law found the internet unsettling. that a buyer in one location could access the website of a seller in any other forced courts to revisit basic questions of jurisdiction and federalism. 1 the potential to share and edit software and other digital objects introduced novel questions of ownership and control. 2 in the mid-1990s, a movement arose among legal academics to address these and similar challenges. known by the name cyberlaw, its central tensions flow from the essential qualities of the internet, by which i mean the characteristics that distinguish the internet from prior or constituent technology such as computers or phones. each of these facets of the internet ends up, alone or in combination, forming the basis for one or more central tensions in cyberlaw. the free flow of information enables new forms of peer production and governance, while simultaneously introducing or exacerbating threats to intellectual property and privacy. the internet stitches communities together, but conflicts invariably burst out at the seams. the internet invokes a distinct sense of a place with new possibilities and norms, but simultaneously introduces methods of exquisite control by organized private and state interests. the remainder of this part runs through a nonexhaustive sampling of examples of internet-specific legal issues, touching upon jurisdiction, intermediary liability, digital property, copyright, free speech, and privacy, among other challenges. 79 intermediaries meticulously study the personal data they gather by virtue of providing a service, and they possess monetary incentives to use the information in problematic ways. 80 more worrisome still, or at least more broadly worrisome, is the ability of the government to reach every nook and cranny of digital space, and the growing tendency among public institutions to share information and use it in ways that disadvantage people or groups. 81 this new conversation deals in power and asymmetry, bringing to bear a diverse array of methodologies from behavioral economics to constitutional and postmodern theory. my working assumption is that a system acts upon its environment to the extent it changes that environment directly. a technology does not act, and hence is not a robot, merely by providing information in an intelligible format. it must be in some way. a robot in the strongest, fullest sense of the term exists in the world as a corporeal object with the capacity to exert itself physically. 123 but again, i am talking in terms of a continuum. it may well be appropriate to refer to certain virtual objects organized to exist in and influence the world as robots, especially if they meet the other definitional elements. imagine a room in which there is projected an image of a person who appears to walk around the room. the animating program has access to various sensors and speakers that, in combination with considerable processing power, allow the program to interact with visitors. imagine further that this room has access to a line of credit and can initiate the delivery of takeout food. obviously the capacity to affect the world physically is not novel in any meaningful legal sense. the earliest cases in tort dealt with the physical consequences of objects. 133 nor does it necessarily matter that drones or other robots permit physical harm at a distance. a bullet shot from land one has permission to enter can trespass onto land one does not. 134 the question whether a drone flying over a backyard below navigable airspace constitutes a trespass may be an interesting example in terms of defining property rights more precisely,135 but it is not ultimately novel. for the most part, people are not confused about how to categorize most entities in the world. we do not, for example, talk to a brick wall and expect it to talk back, nor do we attribute to it mental capabilities or think of it as a possible friend. but robots appear different. 209 if contemporary psychology is struggling with how to categorize robotics given its liminal status between agent and object, it should not surprise us that criminal, tort, and other law may as well. speaking very broadly, the law tends to assume a dichotomy between individuals and tools. a barrel rolls out of the window of a warehouse and we apply the doctrine of res ipsa loquitur. we blame the warehouse owner for her apparently poor safety practices that would permit gravity and wood to combine in this way. a man jumps out of the window of a warehouse, however, and we ask whether he was acting within the scope of his employment. to summarize the argument so far, transformative technologies tend to have essential qualities that drive the legal and policy conversations that attend them. the internet, with its emphasis on connection, community, and control, generated a box of puzzles concerning the nature of commercial, creative, and civic communication, and the powerful role of intermediaries. these questions, while in a sense as important as ever, have faded into the discursive background by virtue of their familiarity and the efforts of academics and policymakers. meanwhile, new technologies ascend, requiring a markedly different emphasis. the essential, distinguishing facets of robotics portend a new set of challenges centered around embodying data, harnessing unpredictability, and disentangling person from instrument. in the spirit of these intermediate positions,247 i too propose a moderate conception of legal exceptionalism for purposes of assessing robotics. a technology is not exceptional merely because it creates one or more small changes in the law, or because it reveals, at the margins, that an existing interpretation of a particular doctrine is incomplete. by the same token, a technology need not occasion a literal breakdown in the rule of law or prove the source of entirely novel doctrines to qualify. rather, a technology is exceptional when its introduction into the mainstream requires a systematic change to the law or legal institutions in order to reproduce, or if necessary displace, an existing balance of values. although i conclude that robotics should be treated separately, it would be wise to draw deeply from lessig and other cyberlaw scholars. both the prospect of control by code and the importance of analogy remain highly relevant to the context of robotics. 288 the degree to which the government or industry can control the architecture of robots will strongly influence academic and policy analysis. but in addition, a familiarity with the interplay between code and law could prove helpful in fashioning responses to the prospect of uncertain and destructive behavior by software. a puzzle over how software constrains human behavior can expand to encompass how law and code can constrain robot behavior. there can be no deep understanding of the interaction between robotics and the law without the hard fought interdisciplinary pragmatism that grew up around cyberlaw. the essential qualities of robotics implicate computer and social science to a degree even greater than the internet. whether at conferences or hearings, in papers or in draft legislation, the legally and technically savvy will need to be in constant conversation. we are, as it happens, already seeing this: interdisciplinary collaborations are cropping up around driverless car and drone regulation. 295 events such as the annual robotics law and policy conference we robot attract nearly as many roboticists as lawyers. as a person with the occasional front row seat to these efforts, i can tell you that the rapidity and seamlessness of these efforts owes a deep debt to cyberlaw. in short, the essential qualities of robotics suggest a separate academic inquiry from cyberlaw, one that reflects the differences between the two technologies and the new human experiences they support. new juridical insights are likely to emerge from the study of robots to complement the legal innovation the internet made possible. but we should not be starting from scratch. decades of cyberlaw scholarship surfaced lessons to the study of any new technology, let alone one with as many commonalities as robotics. these include the role of analogy in common law decision making around technology, the propensity of scholars and courts to embrace certain metaphors, the prospect that architecture constrains, and, in particular, the importance of collaboration across disciplines. few important issues exist in contemporary society that can be solved by reference to law alone or to any one discipline. here, we suggest that both negative and positive potential effects of nonnative species should be tallied. we also suggest that a more meaningful definition of an invasive species would be one for which there is a net negative effect. a dynamic view of nature that recognizes that species characteristics and human valuations thereof change over time, not only reflects ongoing evolutionary processes, but also leads to a more balanced and objective approach to the management of non-native species. despite practical challenges, we are hopeful that informed discussions among policy-makers and the public about data and the capabilities of machine learning, will lead to insightful designs of programs and policies that can balance the goals of protecting privacy and ensuring fairness with those of reaping the benefits to scientific research and to individual and public health. our commitments to privacy and fairness are evergreen, but our policy choices must adapt to advance them, and support new techniques for deepening our knowledge. as a field of study, machine learning sits at the crossroads of computer science, statistics and a variety of other disciplines concerned with automatic improvement over time, and inference and decision-making under uncertainty. related disciplines include the psychological study of human learning, the study of evolution, adaptive control theory, the study of educational practices, neuroscience, organizational behavior, and economics. although the past decade has seen increased crosstalk with these other fields, we are just beginning to tap the potential synergies and the diversity of formalisms and experimental methods used across these multiple fields for studying systems that improve with experience. mobile devices and embedded computing permit large amounts of data to be gathered about individual humans, and machine-learning algorithms can learn from these data to customize their services to the needs and circumstances of each individual. moreover, these personalized services can be connected, so that an overall service emerges that takes advantage of the wealth and diversity of data from many individuals while still customizing to the needs and circumstances of each. instances of this trend toward capturing and mining large quantities of data to improve services and productivity can be found across many fields of commerce, science, and government. historical medical records are used to discover which patients will respond best to which treatments; historical traffic data are used to improve traffic control and reduce congestion; historical crime data are used to help allocate local police to specific locations at specific times; and large experimental data sets are captured and curated to accelerate progress in biology, astronomy, neuroscience, and other dataintensive empirical sciences. we appear to be at the beginning of a decades-long trend toward increasingly data-intensive, evidence-based decisionmaking across many aspects of science, commerce, and government. as with any powerful technology, machine learning raises questions about which of its potential uses society should encourage and discourage. the push in recent years to collect new kinds of personal data, motivated by its economic value, leads to obvious privacy issues, as mentioned above. the increasing value of data also raises a second ethical issue: who will have access to, and ownership of, online data, and who will reap its benefits? currently, much data are collected by corporations for specific uses leading to improved profits, with little or no motive for data sharing. however, the potential benefits that society could realize, even from existing online data, would be considerable if those data were to be made available for public good. the augmented neo-classical model simply extends the basic production function framework to allow an extra input to enter the production function: human capital. since this is estimated at the economy-wide level it does take into account human capital externalities which increase the level of output. the endogenous growth approach argues that there should be an additional effect of human capital over and above the static effect on the level of output. based on the notion that a higher rate of innovation is associated with economies richer in human capital, increasing the level of human capital is expected to have an effect on the growth rate of productivity. there is thus considerable evidence on the existence of heterogeneity across countries in the parameters of the growth regression. this raises the questions of how much such regressions tell us about parameter averages and of how reliable it is to extrapolate results obtained on such a mixed sample to policy prescriptions for specific countries. in particular, it is quite dubious to use an estimate derived from a pool of such diverse countries to make inference as to the impact of educational expansions in the uk. this discussion should have made it clear that it would not be particularly sensible, if at all possible, to try and force all the estimates on a common basis. instead, table 2 contrasts the various studies, highlighting the dependent variable analysed, the schooling regressor used, if the study was meant to capture the flow or the level of human capital, the estimated coefficient as reported in the paper and an interpretation of the implied impact. the sample combines developed and developing countries if not otherwise specified. where provided in the papers, the mean of the human capital proxy is reported. economic performance, as represented by output per worker, appears to be strongly associated with measures of this fundamental cause of growth, social infrastructure, as proxied by combining an index of government anti-diversion policies12 and an index of openness to international trade. 13 similarly, a good social infrastructure appears to be positively correlated to the proximate sources of economic performance, by stimulating both physical and human capital accumulation, as well as by positively affecting residual productivity. some promising very recent contributions based on a new harmonised dataset for the oecd, as well as on more sophisticated techniques exploiting the time-series dimension of the data have however obtained significant and robust estimates in models with high explanatory power. thanks to on amir, ann bartow, yochai benkler, mario biagoli, michael birnhack, kiel brennan-marquez, rochelle dreyfuss, camilla hrdy, jeanne fromer, liz glazer, mark lemley, irina manta, mark mckenna, laura pedraza-farina, chris sprigman, katherine stramburg, and the participants of workshops at nyu, stanford, yale, notre dame, byu, hofstra, tel-aviv, colorado, denver, ubc and the ip scholars conference at uc-berkeley. thanks also to hani farah and max halpern for extraordinary research assistance. 1 regionally and globally, these disputes heavily shape industrial competition. through this web of extensively employed mechanisms, knowledge that has traditionally been deemed part of the public domain becomes proprietary. pre-innovation assignment agreements intellectual property deem regularly go beyond commodifiable. they also regularly reach into the future, propertizing innovation that has not yet been conceived. non-disclosure agreements span beyond traditionally defined secrets under trade secrecy laws and are routinely enforced by courts. 2 violations of secrecy requirements are also increasingly criminalized, chilling exchanges that are recognized as productive and consistent with professional norms. non-compete agreements are now required in almost every industry and position, stymieing job mobility and information flows. beyond the individualized agreements between firms and employees, new antitrust investigations of silicon valley giants, including apple, google, intel, ebay, and pixar, reveal the rise of collusive anti-poaching agreements between firms. postemployment restrictions have become so widespread that they form a cognitive property thicket which curtails efficient recruitment efforts and entrepreneurship. second, time-wise, ownership has expanded to future innovation as well as attempts to go back in time and capture prior knowledge that an employee held when joining a firm. the expansion includes a rise in both preinnovation assignment contracts, including trailer clauses, which reach into the post-employment period to assign ip ownership back to the firm, as well as new legal constructs, including the assignor estoppel doctrine, which prevents assignors from challenging the validity of a patent. the assignor estoppel doctrine dramatically limits the defenses available to former employees who seek to compete in the industry and turns these experienced employees into legal liabilities of the new firms which recruit them. third, scope-wise, recent years have witnessed a colossal rise in the use of noncompetes along with a shift from individualized controls to meta-controls cognitive cartels as evidenced in the ongoing antitrust class action suit against silicon valley high-tech giants for their no-poaching agreements. analyzing new empirical research on the nexus between innovation and human capital, section ii uncovers the harms of the new cognitive property by developing a novel taxonomy of different types of knowledge as they relate to human capital flows: tacit, relational, networked, motivational, and disruptive. each aspect of knowledge helps explain the various harmful effects of the new cognitive property. the section analyzes these effects of contemporary human capital law through the lens of new economic research about endogenous growth, labor market search, and innovation networks, demonstrating the extent to which markets benefit from continuous investment in shared cognitive capital. section iii argues that the rise in cognitive controls should be understood as the third enclosure movement, turning human capital and intangibles of the mind knowledge, experience, skill, creativity, and network into property, with detrimental effects on the public domain. the section explains these developments in relation to the ongoing shift in viewing ip through the lens of antitrust to the lens of property. sergey alyenikov was a star programmer at goldman sachs. a month after leaving goldman sachs to work for a new company, teza technologies, he was arrested by the fbi, and later prosecuted and convicted under the economic espionage act for stealing proprietary technology. goldman had accused alyenikov of stealing computer code and sending himself 32 megabytes of source code. immediately upon discovering the downloads, goldman notified the fbi which promptly sent agents to arrest alyenikov. alyenikov was sentenced to eight years in federal prison. from a firm perspective, many potential new employers will not risk a lawsuit by hiring an employee already bound by a non-compete. for example, in a recent case, a former employer sent a competitor, who hired its departing employee, a letter about the existence of a non-compete. 130 in a standard move, the employee was immediately fired from the new job. in this case, the employee filed a lawsuit against his former employer for tortious interference with his relationship with the new employer. the court dismissed the case, explaining that a former employer has a right to send such warning letters and that the result of the firing does not present a legal issue. the following subsections unpack these concerns by developing a novel taxonomy of the multiple facets of knowledge, as it inhabits contemporary talent pools. to fully understand the effects of the new cognitive property, we need to investigate the core building blocks of human knowledge and the stepping-stones of innovation and progress. human capital is the stock of knowledge in all its multiple forms that contributes to productive work, including knowledge that is non-codifiable, knowledge that expresses itself in skills and know-how, in relationships and network, in creativity and motivation, and in the ability to disrupt and energize. those participants who were asked to sign human capital restrictions on future employment in our online job market performed worse on their tasks and were more likely to quit before the end of the experimental. the findings suggest that participants bound by other postemployment restrictions are less motivated to stay on task than those not bound. 186 recent field data supports these experimental findings, showing that, contrary to traditional economic analysis, companies invest less in research and human capital development when non-competes are strongly enforced, providing further evidence that investment decisions are affected by workers themselves in their assessments on their own ability to move to, or to be recruited by, a different company. 187 these findings suggest that the new cognitive property, which strips employees from ownership over their human capital, not only restricts mobility and knowledge flow but also reduces incentives to innovate. 238 for large established firms, excluding employees from certain innovative activities mitigates the risks of cognitive property suits. new employers who desire to comply and not risk the civil and criminal implications of using cognitive property are likely to go through inefficient and disruptive inquisitive processes, including the exclusion of employees from the inventive activities in which they are most experienced. to smaller and newer firms however, these divisions, which are greatly inefficient in any firm, are impossible. larger companies with legal and financial resources can aggressively drive out sufficient competition even when their legal claims rest on weak grounds. 239 litigation is strategic when it is motivated by and thrives from the uncertainty of claims, high cost of litigation, and asymmetry in the stakes faced by the company and the former employees. 240 even when claims cannot be substantiated, small companies can be driven out of markets. contemporary human capital law is a mongrel amoebic creature that has grown under the radar for too long. through doctrine and contract, the rise of the new cognitive property removes not only the outputs of innovation but also its inputs, including skills, experience, tacit knowledge, professional relationships, motivation, and innovative potential from the public domain. the heightened significance of human capital as a highly valuable resource along with dramatic changes in labor markets has effectuated record numbers of disputes and conflicts. this article has argued that the rise of cognitive property creates too many walls that enclose vital knowledge and creative potential. in the twenty-first century, human capital law has thus become one of our most acute collective challenges. restrictions on the flow of knowledge, through non-competes, non-dealings agreements, trailer clauses, and pre-innovation clauses, contaminate market flows and diminish both the incentives to move efficiently in the market and the incentives to innovate. unfortunately, many people engage in behaviour changes only because of what in sdt is labelled controlled motivation. one common form of controlled motivation is external regulation, in which a person acts only to get an external reward, avoid a punishment or to comply with social pressures. practitioners often create external regulation by suggesting incentives or contingencies, or by trying to motivate through mere authority. another form of controlled motivation is introjection, in which a patient might act to receive approval or praise, or to avoid disapproval or feelings of guilt. introjection is often cultivated by practitioners as a way of goading patients into action by conveying contingent approval. according to sdt, both forms of introjected controlled regulation, are term long adherence. in contrast change can be a function of autonomous motivation. one form of autonomous motivation is identified regulation, in evidence when one personally endorses or identifies with the value or importance of a behaviour or health practice. identification is facilitated when practitioners provide relevant information and meaningful rationales for change, and do not apply external controls and pressures that detract from a sense of agency or choice. even more autonomous is integrated regulation, in which a person not only values a behaviour, but has also aligned it with other central values and lifestyle patterns. practitioners facilitate integration by supporting patients as they explore resistances and barriers to change, and helping them identify congruent pathways to health. according to sdt both identified and integrated regulations are autonomous and are associated with enhanced maintenance and transfer of behaviour change. in the 19th century, scientists realized that gases in the atmosphere cause a "greenhouse effect" which affects the planet's temperature. these scientists were interested chiefly in the possibility that a lower level of carbon dioxide gas might explain the ice ages of the distant past. at the turn of the century, svante arrhenius calculated that emissions from human industry might someday bring a global warming. other scientists dismissed his idea as faulty. in 1938, g. s. callendar argued that the level of carbon dioxide was climbing and raising global temperature, but most scientists found his arguments implausible. it was almost by chance that a few researchers in the 1950s discovered that global warming truly was possible. in the early 1960s, c. d. keeling measured the level of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere: it was rising fast. researchers began to take an interest, struggling to understand how the level of carbon dioxide had changed in the past, and how the level was influenced by chemical and biological forces. the warmed air radiates some of the energy back down to the surface, helping it stay warm. this was the effect that would later be called, by an inaccurate analogy, the "greenhouse effect. " the equations and data available to 19th-century scientists were far too poor to allow an accurate calculation. yet the physics was straightforward enough to show that a bare, airless rock at the earth's distance from the sun should be far colder than the earth actually is. even if people had recognized this was untrue, there were other wellknown reasons to deny any greenhouse effect in the foreseeable future. these reasons reflected a nearly universal conviction that the earth automatically regulated itself in a "balance of nature. " getting to specifics, scientists repeated the plausible argument that the oceans would absorb any excess gases that came into the atmosphere. fifty times more carbon is dissolved in sea water than in the wispy atmosphere. thus the oceans would determine the equilibrium concentration of co2, and it would not easily stray from the present numbers. research by definition is done at the frontier of ignorance. like nearly everyone described in these essays, callendar had to use intuition as well as logic to draw any conclusions at all from the murky data and theories at his disposal. like nearly everyone, he argued for conclusions that mingled the true with the false, leaving it to later workers to peel away the bad parts. while he could not prove that global warming was underway, he had given reasons to reconsider the question. we owe much to callendar's courage. his claims rescued the idea of global warming from obscurity and thrust it into the marketplace of scientific ideas. not everyone dismissed his claims. their very uncertainty attracted scientific curiosity. group after group cut samples from cores of ice in hopes of measuring the level. for two decades, every attempt failed to give consistent and plausible results. finally reliable methods were developed. the trick was to clean an ice sample scrupulously, crush it in a vacuum, and quickly measure what came out. in 1980, a team published findings that were definite, unexpected, and momentous. the new ice cores suggested that a powerful feedback amplified the changes in sunlight. the crucial fact was that a slight warming would cause the level of greenhouse gases to rise slightly. for one thing, warmer oceans would evaporate out more gas. for another, as the vast arctic tundras warmed up, the bogs would emit more co2 and methane. the greenhouse effect of these gases would raise the temperature a little more, which would cause more emission of gases, which would. . . and so forth, hauling the planet step by step into a warm period. many thousands of years later, the process would reverse when the sunlight falling in key latitudes weakened. bogs and oceans would absorb greenhouse gases, ice would build up, and the planet would slide back into an ice age. this finally explained how tiny shifts in the earth's orbit could set the timing of the enormous swings of glacial cycles. the basic physics and chemistry of the problems raised by tyndall were now well in hand. there were reliable calculations of the direct effects of co2 on radiation, of how the gas was dissolved in sea water, and other physical phenomena. further progress would center on understanding the complex interactions of the entire planetary system, and especially interactions with living creatures. the creatures who would count the most were humans. the climate a century hence would depend chiefly on what they chose to do about their emissions. an example of a private regulatory body that is less connected with state or inter-state action is the world anti-doping agency, an organization connected with the international olympic committee, which applies careful due process standards in dealing with athletes suspected of using banned substances, culminating in the review system of the private international court of arbitration for sport. significant normative and practical problems arise in proposals to extend administrative law approaches to such bodies, although these problems are contextspecific rather than uniform. we believe it is desirable to study such bodies as part of global administration, and to trace similarities as well as differences in mechanisms of accountability developed for public and private bodies. this brief survey of structures and examples indicates that important regulatory functions are no longer exclusively domestic in character and have become significantly transnational, or global. this is especially true in the area of rulemaking, in which genuinely international action combines with action by national regulators in networks of global coordination to supplement, and often determine, domestic action, thus penetrating deeply into domestic regulatory programs and decisions. further, in more and more cases, global decisions directly affect individuals or firms, as for example in u. n. security council decisions on sanctions and anti-terrorism measures, in unhcr activities, in the clean development mechanism under the kyoto protocol, or in the quasiautomatic incorporation in domestic law of decisions by the financial action task force. nonetheless, the two realms are already closely intertwined in many areas of regulation and administration. the rise of regulatory programs at the global level and their infusion into domestic counterparts means that the decisions of domestic administrators are increasingly constrained by substantive and procedural norms established at the global level; the formal need for domestic implementation thus no longer provides for meaningful independence of the domestic from the international realm. at the same time, the global administrative bodies making those decisions in some cases enjoy too much de facto independence and discretion to be regarded as mere agents of states. weighing the significance and trajectory of this interconnectedness is a matter of appreciation, on which views differ. in our view, international lawyers can no longer credibly argue that there are no real democracy or legitimacy deficits in global administrative governance because global regulatory bodies answer to states, and the governments of those states answer to their voters and courts. if it is proposed to reflect not a natural law approach but one founded upon practice, uncertainty remains about the basis for determining such norms and their legal status. that general principles of law require such a high convergence of legal systems reflects a strong commitment to inclusiveness, and to preventing impositions by one group of states on the rest. the ius gentium, however attractive a category it may be for global administrative law, will have to face this challenge too. a final problem of sources concerns the status of domestic law. domestic law is a controlling source of law for domestic administration and thus for national administrative agencies either implementing global law or acting as a part of global administrative structures, or both. domestic courts may also provide a forum for redress when global administrative bodies act directly on private parties. through these means, domestic law can help ensure accountability of global administration; and a subtle architecture of accountability centered on domestic mechanisms might be a means to reflect the varying normative commitments of each national society and thus accommodate diversity. 34 yet domestic mechanisms established and operated according to local predilections might not meet the functional needs for a degree of global commonality in principles and mechanisms, and for responsiveness to the particular features of specific global administrative regimes. conflicts between domestic law, particularly constitutional law, and these global needs might be difficult to resolve except by pragmatic temporary accommodations. even if agreement were reached on identifying the formal sources of global administrative law, in terms of either traditional international law or a revived ius gentium approach, it is unlikely that a definitive and detailed body of rules and principles governing global administration could presently be formulated, even in relation to formal intergovernmental arrangements. written intergovernmental instruments concerning such norms are scattered and relatively sparse, the practices of global administrative bodies are fragmented, and formal domestic norms vary considerably even if some convergence is occurring. hybrid and private global regulatory arrangements are not directly subject to many of these rules and principles, and the status of the emerging administrative legal principles and practices in relation to such hybrid and private systems is largely undetermined. moreover, under a ius gentium approach, disagreement is inevitable about whose practices to count and whose not to count for the emergence of a rule, and as to how much consistent practice might be necessary to generate a strong pull for adhesion. on a more conventional basis, domestic courts have reviewed decisions of global administrative bodies of a private character. here, the rules of private international law apply, including rules reflecting domestic public policy, and domestic courts may be presumptively willing to exercise jurisdiction. for example, the international sports regime of the ioc and the related international court of arbitration for sport has had to convince domestic courts that their decisions in anti-doping matters meet standards of due process in order to have them recognized in domestic law. courts are by no means the only domestic institutions involved in making global administration more accountable. in the united states, for example, some federal regulatory officials afford notice and comment when participating in international standard-setting on certain topics. 45 in such cases, participation of interested persons in administrative proceedings is moved into a phase usually considered as preparatory. this ensures that the participation comes in time to affect international negotiations among regulators that result in decisions that will later be implemented in, or will powerfully influence, domestic regulatory law. 46 likewise, parliaments have in some cases begun to extend their oversight over administrative action to participation by national officials in global administrative networks. thus, the u. s. congress requires reports from u. s. regulatory agencies before agreeing to recommendations of financial regulatory groups, such as the basle committee. 47 thus far, however, these types of efforts are episodic and fragmented. they are often driven by particular controversies, so that some problems are neglected, and others extensively addressed. in addition to its variety of institutional mechanisms, global administrative law comprises some basic legal principles and requirements of both a procedural and substantive character. given the fragmentation of practice in global administration and the limited state of integrated knowledge about it, we cannot here venture claims about the doctrinal elements governing this field as a whole. but some candidates can be preliminarily identified, even though their reach may at present be limited. it will be a central task for further research to show the extent to which these and other elements are in fact reflected in global administrative practice, and the extent to which they could be applied or adapted to areas of international or transnational regulation, in which administrative law is currently rudimentary or non-existent. participation in global administrative proceedings has not been confined to individuals or states targeted by decisions. in the area of standard-setting and rulemaking, several bodies, such as the codex alimentarius commission, have sought to include in their work ngos representing affected social and economic interests. 64 domestic regulators, too, have begun to give notice of proposed standards being considered in global negotiations in which they participate. however, participation rights in rulemaking have been afforded in only a limited number of instances and areas. how far a right of review is accepted in different governance areas and with what limitations, and what institutional mechanisms it encompasses in such areas, are all unresolved questions. despite strong calls for effective review mechanisms in several important areas, these have not been instituted. for example, the security council has failed to establish an independent body to scrutinize its sanctions decisions. similarly, the unhcr has so far accepted only internal mechanisms of supervision. even in the transitional administration of territories such as bosnia, kosovo, or east timor, international organizations have not been willing to accept a right of individuals to obtain review of intergovernmental agency actions before courts or by other independent bodies with greater powers than ombudspersons. 80 some traction on these varying patterns can be obtained by employing the terminology of the english school of international relations, which distinguishes three different patterns of international ordering: pluralism, solidarism, or cosmopolitanism. inter-state pluralism is the typical pattern of traditional international law, with treaties, international institutions, and international administration limited to areas of agreement between states. as a result, major value conflicts are not resolved and powers of implementation are usually retained by each individual state rather than centralized. inter-state solidarism envisages deepening powers for international institutions and global administration based on shared values, with cooperation still based on interstate bargaining but with states committed to upholding the global administration system and the various decisions that it produces, even when these conflict with short-term interest calculations. cosmopolitanism envisages global governance that is not essentially the result of inter-state bargaining, but draws also from cross-border networks of civil society actors, private regulatory and media institutions, and markets. these three patterns are simplified ideal types. but typically, one of these models is understood by the participants as predominating and as shaping the major dynamics of particular issue areas. thus arms control and disarmament are traditionally highly pluralist fields, the international criminal court is a solidarist project, and the governance of global sports issues is primarily cosmopolitan. these conditions of international order are not so much objective descriptions as they are statements of the understandings of the participants, whose approaches and interactions are shaped by what they understand the prevailing dynamic to be. the second normative conception is liberal and rightsoriented: administrative law protects the rights of individuals and other civil society actors, mainly through their participation in administrative procedures and through the availability of review to ensure the legality of a decision. it may also be extended to the protection of the rights of states. the third conception views the role of global administrative law as promoting democracy. national administrative law in many countries has a democratic component: it ensures the accountability of administrators to parliament by ensuring their compliance with statutes and to broader economic and social constituencies through public participation in administrative decisionmaking procedures. these three conceptions are sketched here simply to delineate general orientations in the debate. a full treatment of normative issues would require a much more extensive discussion of vastly more complex and nuanced positions, many of which do not fit very closely into these three simple archetypes. the first conception of global administrative law is the normatively least demanding of the three: it takes a given order for granted and merely seeks to ensure that the various components and agents within that order perform their appointed roles and conform to the internal law of the regime. on this basis, the justification for administrative law is merely functional: it is an instrument to uphold and secure the cohesion and sound functioning of an institutional order that is justified independently. any global administrative regime depends for its functioning on the coordinated action of different components and actors, both international or transnational and domestic, and it thus requires mechanisms to ensure that each of them performs assigned roles in accordance with norms of the regime. these mechanisms will usually imply some way of policing the limits of delegation and compliance with rules emanating from the center. the world bank inspection panel can be analyzed in this way as a means for the board to control management and as a means for central management to control operational managers. the wto dispute settlement body also operates to some extent as a mechanism to assert and help enforce rules of the global regime against distributed, domestic administrations. similarly, the emergence of european rules on member-state administrative procedures, allowing for participation in and judicial review of member-state administrative decisions, has enabled european law to be more readily asserted and enforced against recalcitrant domestic regulators. 84 this element of global administration to some extent mirrors domestic mechanisms such as the oversight exercised by the u. s. the second strand of normative goals for global administrative law, the protection of rights, makes stronger normative presuppositions, but is still suited to several different conceptions of international order if the notion of rights is understood broadly. in all administrative law conceptions, the rights in question will ordinarily be those held by the direct subjects of regulation, be these states, individuals, firms, or in some cases ngos. as in domestic administrative law, the possibility also exists of third-party rights belonging to persons or groups more indirectly affected by regulatory decisions. some proponents emphasize the ways in which domestic administrative law serves democracy by ensuring administrative adherence to parliamentary statutes and providing transparency and the participation of the public in administrative rulemaking. these ways may vary depending on the legal systems involved: requirements, u. s. administrative law emphasizes judicially enforced obligations of agencies to adequately consider the various social and economic interests affected by their decisions, and to provide a reasoned justification for the policy choices that they make. such justification has to include responses to the views and comments submitted by representatives of those interests through the public participation mechanisms. this judicialized conception of public participation, however, finds only limited expression in many other national systems. 92 national democratic systems vary in their means of operationalizing democratic control, and thus diverge in their ways of managing the discretion that effective administration requires. some use parliamentary controls or executive controls, such as centralized control systems that employ cost-benefit analysis; others rely on experts, administrative law procedures, and judicial review. second, the domestic model of administrative law is founded on a particular institutional structure, based on a central democratic lawmaking body and the laws that it enacts. a similar system of representative global democracy is today advocated by some,93 but usually regarded as illusionary or even dangerous. independent reviewing courts, which are central to domestic administrative law, are also lacking at the global level. thus, a global administrative law would have to be built on very different grounds: it would either have to democratize international lawmaking so that ensuring the legality of administrative action would promote democratic accountability; or it would have to construct administrative procedures that can shoulder the democratic burden alone. 94 so far, however, both options face the fundamental problem that convincing democratic theories for the global sphere are still lacking. yet a democracy-enhancing conception of global administrative law might not depend on a full-fledged democratic theory for the global level. in this regard, anne-marie slaughter has suggested that many problems of democratic accountability could be solved if global administration were to operate mainly in the form of government networks, in which the participating national officials could be made democratically accountable to their respective publics through domestic institutions. 102 she reasons that securing such accountability to domestic publics is likely to be easier in the case of networks than formal, treaty-based international organizations, which have far greater effective autonomy. pursuit of such accountability entails strengthening domestic mechanisms, including extension and development of domestic administrative law mechanisms to govern the participation of national officials in global administrative decisionmaking. this strategy might indeed enhance a certain brand of democratic legitimacy, but its effectiveness in doing so will probably be limited in important ways by the practical dynamics of decisionmaking in intergovernmental networks. further, given that global administration operates through a number of other important types of institutions in addition to intergovernmental networks, this strategy would provide only a partial solution. finally, and most fundamental, while such a strategy is well-suited to a pluralist pattern of international ordering because it ties accountability for global decisionmaking back to the separate legal and political institutions of each participating state, for the same reasons it may actually work against the realization of solidarist or cosmopolitan conceptions of international administration. perhaps, then, it would be advisable for global administrative law to pursue a less ambitious and more pragmatic approach. it could, for example, recognize that under current circumstances, no satisfactory democratic basis for global administration is available but that global administrative structures are nevertheless required to deal with problems national democracies are unable to solve on their own. in this non-ideal situation, global administrative law might take pragmatic steps towards a stronger inclusion of affected social and economic interests through mechanisms of participation and review open to ngos, business firms, and other civil society actors, as well as states and international organizations. yet, such steps fall short of representation of the public on a basis equivalent to domestic electoral mechanisms and thus will not be able to justify the exercise of administrative authority on a fully democratic basis. and for each step, the construction of a global administrative law with democratic goals would have to reassess the costs and benefits of broad-based participation, thus integrating practical experience in the gradual development of public accountability. this would recall the classical and intractable debates between reformers and revolutionists, in which both sides are probably right in some way. but it would also point to the need for thinking about distributional issues and ways to achieve greater accountability of global administration to those who are the most excluded today. most initiatives currently proposed would have the effect of increasing accountability towards northern populations, market actors, social interests, and states. increasing the ability of such actors to hold global governance to account may aggravate the cleavages currently existing in the world, and might weaken institutions that offer the most promise to disadvantaged groups. in order to address the central problems of accountability, global administrative law might have to devise ways to empower and include people and their representatives from the south. from this perspective, a more effective participation of the developing world in global administrative structures might be more urgent than implementing yet another path of influence for the affluent parts of the world. however, this condition does not hold true globally. it is often unclear in which global decisionmaking arrangements one could or should establish participatory rights, or which actions should be reviewable when binding instruments and decisions are absent. these problems cannot be avoided by instituting binding, command-and-control administration on a widespread basis at the global level, since this would imply a more farreaching delegation of powers to global institutions than is realistic for the near future. in distributed administration, these challenges are less severe because global administrative law requirements can be imposed on existing domestic regulatory administrations. since, in many of its parts, global administration is made up of domestic regulators cooperating, and since it often depends for its effectiveness on domestic implementation, such a bottom-up approach might actually be effective in ensuring accountability, and it might be a powerful tool to link global administration to democratic procedures. however, it also faces important limitations and problems. as noted above, this approach could be implemented rather easily in the case of global decisionmaking by intergovernmental networks, but it will be much more difficult to apply to formal international organizations or to hybrid or private governance arrangements. it is difficult to see how it could be applied at all to distributed administration by other states. further, implementing this approach would require some way to order the diversity of techniques that are bound to develop when different countries establish their own procedures and thus seek to influence global administrative bodies in diverging ways. implementation of the bottom-up approach would also be confronted by serious objections that powerful states have far greater influence on global administration than do weaker states. and those seeking to implement the approach will have to deal with the question of the relevant constituency: to which public or publics should global administration be accountable? if the relevant public is global or trans-border in character and different from the sum of the national publics, domestic procedures may be insufficient, at least in their traditional form. this might also be true for the application of domestic administrative law to distributed global administration: here, too, it might be necessary to devise ways to include a broader set of interests than just the national public. ruth grant and robert keohane point to the general dearth in global governance of checks and balances, to the non-delegated nature of the power of most important actors, and to the lack of a defined global public. 116 this analysis also raises the question of whether alternative accountability mechanisms can be crafted. such mechanisms would go beyond the usual mechanisms of domestic administrative law: they would include forms of hierarchical, supervisory, and legal accountability, backed by pressures from markets and from peers, by financial controls, and by public reputational dynamics. 117 an added advantage of such a shift would be a broadened range of actors covered: while administrative law concepts usually focus mainly on public actors and especially on those to whom power has been delegated, these mechanisms could also be applied to private actors, such as ngos or firms, and to states, the main power-wielders in international affairs. this would not have to be confined to public bodies, but could also include a wealth of private bodies engaged in global administration. another alternative model is one of mutual challenge and reinforcement: different levels of participation and review would remain in an unclear relationship, allowing each to challenge the others on the basis of their own normative principles and standards. examples would include national court challenges to international institutions such as the u. n. security council; or challenges to domestic administrative procedures by the wto appellate body. 119 this could, over time, lead to a strengthening and mutual adaptation of accountability mechanisms in the different layers of global administration. in this sense, it might be seen as a provisional approach; but it might also be a more permanent feature of a global administrative space, in which notions of legitimacy and justice are likely to remain contested and divergent for a long while. to address these questions, collaborators in the nyu research project on global administrative law and comparable initiatives are analyzing a wide variety of cases in which administrative law, or mechanisms, rules, and procedures comparable to administrative law, are used to promote transparency, participation, and accountability in informal, cooperative, and hybrid structures and in multi-level systems with shared responsibility in decisionmaking. defining a field of global administrative law may help draw connections among specialist areas of theory and practice, and thus reveal parallels and contradictions that were not noticed earlier. with a wide set of case studies of practice in particular areas, coupled with efforts to develop comparative and synthetic conceptual structures and normative theories, questions about the design of and need for mechanisms of transparency, participation, review, and legality in global administration may be more fully addressed. moreover, a deeper analysis of doctrinal features and divergences will be possible, and hypotheses of positive political theory can be developed and tested. work on the normative issues is likely both to deepen transnational and global democratic theory and to raise challenging questions about its application to specific administrative structures and to the whole project of global administrative law. normative inquiries will also enrich operational understandings of the place of diversity, equality, and equity in global administrative law. the need for alternative approaches to the currently dominant models of global governance and administrative law is pressing but is just beginning to be addressed. the roberts court has written two important tax opinions. both endow the tax law with legal superpowers, giving it the astonishing ability to elude constitutional limits. the justices have sent congress and state legislatures a strong and clear message: they may use their tax laws as a means to aggressively enact public objectives unrelated to the traditional revenue-raising function of taxation. the justices have also made clear that the court will uphold policies administered through the tax law even where those same policies would be unconstitutional if administered as either direct regulation or appropriated spending. this is bad news for the tax law, and maybe for the constitution as well. both of these cases aggravate a growing tension between the economic and legal analyses of taxation, widening the gap between these two central approaches to tax law. the court transformed tax expenditures from state action, ordinarily subject to constitutional limits, into nonreviewable private spending by individuals. this development reduces the protection that the constitution provides to individuals, undermines tax reform efforts and fiscal responsibility, jeopardizes established legal doctrine, and discourages transparent and equitable governance. the acs case gives congress and state legislatures an incentive to adopt tax credits for anything that might be constitutionally suspect under the bill of rights. as long as the legislature designs a preference for religion as a tax benefit, it is now effectively beyond judicial review. many tax articles are highly economic and not particularly legal, ignoring the tension between the economic effect and legal logic that is ubiquitous in the tax law. this article is an exception. it focuses on how the economics and the law of taxation conflict, and why legal consequences do not always track economic effects. this conflict reared its head in the stark divergence of the holdings of the two cases this article analyzes; most of the justices voting with the majority in one case voted in dissent in the other. in nfib, economic equivalence prevailed and the majority upheld the mandate under the taxing power, even though the provision had many legal characteristics that distinguish it from the economically equivalent taxing scheme that it might have been. 73 prior to acs, the constitutional treatment of tax expenditures had been nuanced: economic equivalence did not necessarily imply legal equivalence, but it was not irrelevant either. rather, economic equivalence was considered evidence of government support, one element relevant in determining legal consequences. 74 after acs, tax provisions that benefit religious institutions through a credit are now immune from legal attack, even where other provisions with the same effect would not only be subject to judicial review, but likely adjudicated to be unconstitutional on the merits. the for tax acs decision created a protected expenditures as compared to their direct spending equivalents, and effectively constitutionalized tax expenditures, immunizing them from judicial review. the acs decision invites legislatures to tread upon the bill of rights with impunity, and they might be politically tempted to do so because they can claim to be cutting taxes. now that tax expenditures share the legal status of tax cuts, legislatures will be tempted to multiply the programs they administer through the tax law, all the while proclaiming their generosity in passing politically popular tax cuts. in the substantive establishment clause analysis, the message of government support for religion can be more important than that of economic support,125 so the purposes that are evident in the statute may outweigh the economic consequences of its implementation. furthermore, tax-based aid generally has less entanglement with religion than direct aid, so it more easily avoids establishment clause problems. 126 under this substantive criteria, the acs facts favor the state. first, the statute is neutral with respect to religious and secular schools; there is no mention of religious organizations anywhere in the legislation. and second, the stos stand between the state and the religious schools so that no money flows directly from state coffers to religious organizations. these distinctions are important to the substantive constitutional evaluation of establishment clause claims, so the acs majority did not need to characterize tax expenditures as tax cuts or private spending to uphold the sto credit. for these reasons, the plaintiffs would likely have lost on the merits if the supreme court had reached them, despite the fact of economic equivalence. 179 the revenuefrom-growth argument is one that can only apply to business credits, not to personal credits like the one in acs, because the tax reduction must translate into economic growth that produces more taxable income for the math to work. the acs majority cited an earlier ruling it had made on business tax credits to support that statement, even though the cited case does not clearly take that economic position adopted in the later decision. 180 it is surprising that the supreme court chose to take a contested position on the economic effects of tax credits at all since there was no argument in acs that the sto credits produced revenue that paid for the cost of those credits. instead, the court maintained that the plaintiffs could injury because stos support private school suffer no education, and that private school education reduces public costs because it relieves the government of the burden of educating the children who could have attended public schools. the tax expenditure budget was designed to provide conceptual clarity in the tax law. 188 it categorizes some statutory provisions as part of the structure of the tax, and others as extraneous to that structure. 189 unlike elements in the tax law that are necessary to accurately measure income, like deductions for business expenses, if all tax expenditures were repealed, the tax law could still effectively carry out its revenue collection function. without tax expenditures, however, tax law could no longer incentivize and subsidize particular activities, a concededly important function of the federal tax system. while the federal income tax is a far cry from an ideal income tax, there are general rules in the tax law that make the system operate in a moderately consistent way. 190 the acs majority confuses the analysis of taxation by failing to recognize that there is a principled distinction between reducing taxes, on the one hand, and spending in the tax law, on the other. tax cuts are about reducing burdens on individuals while spending is about targeting government resources for particular purposes. there are three factors that help to illuminate whether a reduction in tax liability is actually a tax cut. first, burdens are about adjusting the tax on people, not things. if reductions are connected to favored activities or investments, they are not about adjusting the tax burden; tax cuts need to resemble rate reductions in some way. second, the more targeted a provision, the more it resembles spending and the less it relates to burdens. and third, tax cuts reduce the size of government, while spending in the tax law increases it. even though the acs provision fails to resemble a real tax cut under these factors, the court treats it as a tax cut nonetheless. the paradigm tax cut is a rate reduction; nobody would argue that reducing statutory rates should be treated as spending. that is because a reduction in rates reduces the burden of taxation without changing the definition of what is taxed. 196 rate reductions do not change the relative advantage of different sources or uses of funds. they do not encourage particular activities, but instead distribute tax burdens across broad groups of people. targeted tax benefits do the opposite. they alter the advantage of particular sources or uses of funds, encourage particular activities, and change the burdens within income groups. like rate reductions, repeal of a whole tax system, such as a state sales tax or the federal estate tax, also constitutes a tax cut. in those cases, the burden of taxation is eliminated without altering any underlying measure on which the tax depends. budgeting is hard political work and legislatures need to make difficult trade-offs. many states have constitutionally imposed requirements to balance their budgets. 226 individual taxpayers may not be aware of the complex interaction of different priorities or the costs that particular choices might impose on other public goals. a budgeting procedure that allows taxpayers to direct government funds, a few hundred dollars at a time, can undermine fiscal discipline overall, and skew the support available for a few programs. credits can deplete the public treasury without legislators prioritizing funding choices, a core responsibility of representative government. the acs decision encourages this kind of irresponsible legislative behavior by providing greater judicial cover for check-the-box budgeting. the acs decision also presents a potential metaproblem for revenue collection since the effect of the precedent may ultimately be contraction of the tax base. shielding tax benefits from review by treating them as declining to tax would exacerbate a bias that already exists in the review of tax statutes, to the detriment of the government treasury. there is already an imbalance in the reviewability of tax statutes created by the standing rules applicable to most taxpayer suits. 231 government imposes tax through a system that includes revenue-raising and revenue-reducing provisions. the revenue-raising provisions are subject to perennial challenge. 232 the revenue-reducing provisions tax expenditures are targeted reductions that produce identifiable winners, but not identifiable losers. the general public, and the fisc that it funds, is always the loser from targeted tax benefits. taxpayers complaining that they have been overtaxed are entitled to sue to reduce their assessed tax liability, and taxpayers attempting to reduce their liability will sometimes win and sometimes lose on the merits. one might say that these natural law judges, working within the common law tradition, have paid international law the compliment of not only recognizing its claim to be law, but also of considering it to be constitutive of their understanding of the rule of law or legality, so that public officials must comply with international law if they are to abide by the rule of law. thus, it is incumbent on the international bodies charged with making decisions affecting the interests of individuals subject to their legal regimes to repay the compliment. international bodies should put in place mechanisms that will help to ensure that their officials comply with the package of rule-of-law controls. as a corollary, domestic courts should consider decisions of international bodies suspect, though not necessarily invalid, to the extent that these decisions do not comply with such controls. in addition, a third point undermines a more sophisticated kind of legal positivism, one that seeks to recognize judgments as a source of positive law: that judges have developed a common law of judicial review over time is considered the positive law basis for their understanding of the rule of law. the idea is that proponents of the common-law constitution consider judgments to be evidence of the requirements of the rule of law and not the source of those requirements. when the executive acts, it must act within the limits of its legal authority, that is, within the authority provided by the particular enabling statute. judges fulfill their role by policing those limits. this doctrine of judicial review, the doctrine of ultra vires, thus holds that the limits on executive discretion in implementing a statutory mandate are only the limits prescribed by statute or by some other supraauthoritative source, for example, a statute prescribing general rules for all administrative bodies or a written constitution. this discourse has advanced the idea that officials should be attentive to policy and political considerations, but must also take into account the humanity of the individuals subject to the decision and the impact of the decision on them. in other words, the idea of the individual as a bearer of human rights reinforces the notion that any individual subject to official power must be treated in a way respectful of his or her status as a member of humanity. thus, it should be no great surprise if the developing international human rights discourse is then used to fill out the content of humanitarianism. that the device cannot be stretched this far might be thought, as did the dissenters in teoh and baker, to indicate simply that judges have reached the limits of their review authority. the better understanding is, however, that one contribution of the judicial domestication of international human rights law is that it underlines the poverty of the ultra vires doctrine as a justification for judicial review. this judicial domestication shows that the true justification was never a view of legislative consent derived from the separation of powers. rather, it was the constitution of legality, a constitution to whose values the legislature is just as accountable as the executive. put differently, overcoming dualism about international norms may help us to finally move away from the kind of internal dualism sustained by legal positivist accounts of the judicial role in upholding the rule of law. four days after the security council adopted resolution 1373, the governor in council issued the united nations suppression of terrorism regulations. these regulations aim to cut off funding of terrorists by prohibiting financial dealings with a list of entities and by making it an offense to provide or collect funds for a listed person. 62 further, they impose a duty on canadian financial institutions, residents of canada, and all other canadians to disclose any property they have reason to believe is owned by or controlled by or on behalf of a listed person, as well as information related to transactions involving such property. the canadian government decided to avoid the challenge in court and instead amended the terrorism regulations to exempt hussein. canadian officials had been in contact with u. s. officials and had concluded that hussein should not be on the list because he was not connected to any terrorist activities. this exemption meant that canada was no longer in compliance with its obligations to the security council, and it also left hussein subject to sanctions by other nations. however, canada succeeded in getting him taken off the security council list, thereby coming once more into compliance. legality and legitimacy are deeply implicated in the common law of judicial review since public exercises of power are lawful on condition that they do not violate these values and principles. moreover, what is meant by public exercise of power is not confined to executive action under the authority of statute. even in a legal order that lacks a written constitution of any sort, the legislature is answerable to the same set of values and principles. if a domestic court has good rule-of-law reasons to resist an extradition order based on the listing mechanism of the 1267 committee, then its refusal to accord authority to that mechanism indicates a failure of legality the security council must remedy before its legislation will merit respect. in addition, assuming that listing a person in this manner is an illegal act, in principle, one who has been listed and who has suffered as a result would be able to claim damages from the institutions that had participated in this process. of course, if the u. n. however, the claim is not that international law is best explained as a kantian order of right. rather, from the perspective of the rule of law, the reasons for having a separation of powers are more important than any particular arrangement of powers. put differently, violations of the rule of law are to be determined by looking to the substantive values that the separation of powers are supposed to protect rather than to whether the particular arrangement of powers in a legal order has been disturbed. such a failure faces those who could trigger the process of reform which would make a remedy possible with the question whether they wish to make a choice for the rule of law. if no remedy is available, then the rule of law has failed. if those who can trigger the process of remedial reform choose the values underlying the rule of law over the expression of its arrangement, they should design and install institutions that make it possible for legal authorities to exercise their power according to a rule of law that rests on such values. 107 at the least, as the u. s. supreme court has recognized in rasul and hamdi, there must be some governmental body with jurisdiction over the matter that affords those affected by a public decision the opportunity to have their cases properly heard. in one sense the international legal order can be said to have reached a stage of moral enlightenment, compared to which domestic legal orders seem immature. i mean here the development of international human rights law, which together with older conventions like the geneva convention often these days seems to provide the most powerful grammar for moral criticism of the practice of nation states, either for their failure to commit to these norms or for their failure to live up to their commitments. however, just as it might be appropriate to condemn countries for failing to join or for flouting the values of the moral community of those who respect human rights, so perhaps should international bodies be criticized if or when they create norms without putting in place the kind of institutional mechanisms that mature domestic systems take for granted. from the perspective of the international law of human rights, the question might seem to be one about how to bring all nations fully into the normative moral community. in common-law legal orders, the gradual subjection of prerogative powers to the control of both legislation and the common law can rightly be thought of as an expression of that hope in legal practice. similarly, the thought that international law is just as much law as domestic law and that the task for the jurist is to seek to harmonize the norms of both by regarding each as a part of a unity, is an important step in the movement from the misery of the state of nature. kelsen goes wrong, however, in refusing to countenance the thought of enlightenment as a reciprocal process. international law can be viewed as the default system with whose norms domestic law must always comply only if one is compelled, as kelsen thought, to avoid any reference to the laws of nature, to the substantive moral content of the rule of law. yet, as we also saw in part i, international bodies are as capable as their domestic counterparts of issuing norms that are in tension with the rule of law. i did not argue that judges are always able to resolve such tensions, nor that they are best equipped to craft solutions. rather, i argued that the crucial point is that a commitment to the rule of law requires that solutions be developed and that one has to adopt a richer understanding of the rule of law than that espoused by legal positivism. moreover, as i argued in part ii, this richer understanding of the rule of law supports the idea of international law and of international legal order, though it requires that international legal order become more mature institutionally. in the context of my case study of the 1267 committee, that requirement translates into the development of appropriate due process requirements before any individual is listed as a suspected terrorist. growing expertise in this mutli-disciplinary field is helping to design ever more sophisticated second-generation technologies with bioresponsive elements, targeting ligands and three-dimensional architecture. there is real hope that, once optimized, these biomimetic nano-sized constructs will provide the improved treatments that are so urgently sought for life-threatening and debilitating diseases. microbial infection remains one of the most serious complications in several areas, particularly in medical devices, drugs, health care and hygienic applications, water purification systems, hospital and dental surgery equipment, textiles, food packaging, and food storage. antimicrobials gain interest from both academic research and industry due to their potential to provide quality and safety benefits to many materials. however, low molecular weight antimicrobial agents suffer from many disadvantages, such as toxicity to the environment and short-term antimicrobial ability. to overcome problems associated with the low molecular weight antimicrobial agents, antimicrobial functional groups can be introduced into polymer molecules. the use of antimicrobial polymers offers promise for enhancing the efficacy of some existing antimicrobial agents and minimizing the environmental problems accompanying conventional antimicrobial agents by reducing the residual toxicity of the agents, increasing their efficiency and selectivity, and prolonging the lifetime of the antimicrobial agents. research concerning the development of antimicrobial polymers represents a great a challenge for both the academic world and industry. the use of antimicrobial polymers offers promise for enhancing the efficacy of some existing antimicrobial agents and minimizing the environmental problems accompanying conventional antimicrobial agents by reducing the residual toxicity of the agents, increasing their efficiency and selectivity, and prolonging the lifetime of the antimicrobial agents. also, polymeric antimicrobial agents have the advantage that they are nonvolatile and chemically stable and do not permeate through skin. therefore, they can reduce losses associated with volatilization, photolytic decomposition, and transportation. in the field of biomedical polymers, infections associated with biomaterials represent a significant challenge to the more widespread application of medical implants. 11-15 infection is the most common cause of biomaterial implant failure in modern medicine. antimicrobial polymers play an important role in reducing the incidences of such failures. catheters made from a polymer that slowly releases an antibiotic could save the lives of many hospital patients who are subjected to infections every year. antimicrobial polymers could also thwart infections around more permanent implants, such as pacemakers. another method is to endow a biocidal function to the polymer after processing. 10,18,19 a different approach for the preparation of polymers bearing groups with antimicrobial activity is the preparation of polymerizable monomer-containing biocide moieties and then polymerizing subsequently or copolymerizing with another monomer. 10,20-26 the grafting of antimicrobial agents into natural occurring or synthetic polymers is yet another approach to the problem of the preparation of bioactive materials with a potential use in various applications. the current review is focused on the recent developments in the field of antimicrobial polymers primarily over the past 10 years and subsequent to the previous review of worley and sun. 10 the review is organized into sections discussing the basic requirements, factors affecting the antimicrobial activity of the polymer, and the various approaches and major applications of the antimicrobial polymers. the antimicrobial activity of the quaternary ammonium dendrimers synthesized by chen et al. showed dependence on the counterion. they found that the biocides with bromide anions are more potent than those with chloride anions. 37 however, the work carried out by panarin and co-workers on the synthesis of homopolymers of vinylamine and methyl methacrylate with pendent quaternary ammonium groups showed no effect for counter anions on the antibacterial activities among chloride, bromide, and iodide. 39 it is not clear why counterions should have an effect on antimicrobial activity except where they alter solubilities of their host polymers. the antibacterial activity of the monomer mq against grampositive as well as gram-negative bacteria was explored by the shake-flask method,46 which is one of the testing methods commonly used for evaluating the biocidal activity of materials. the results indicated that it was antibacterial after 24 h contact time. the antimicrobial activity of the polymer pq, synthesized by the polymerization of mq, was determined, and the results indicated that it was a reasonably potent antimicrobial agent. this polymer could be functioning as a drug delivery system, releasing the norfloxacin, which is known to inhibit bacterial dna gyrase and cell growth. the amount of ampicillin chemically bound to the matrix was spectroscopically characterized. the in vitro release rate of ampicillin in weak basic medium was studied along with the determination of its antimicrobial activity. the study indicated that the rate of drug release could be controlled by the amount of the incorporated anhydride. to study the antimicrobial activity of the prepared polymers, patel et al. ran a control experiment, that is, only culture without the drug, which showed a higher growth rate than the experiment in the presence of the drug. the presence of the drug alone reduced the growth rate from the beginning. bound drug was unable to show an effect in the beginning. however, after a delay of 8-16 h, bacterial growth was inhibited. this could be due to the release of the drug, which means that this system works as a controlled release system for the drug, and, once released, the ampicillin released begins to function according to the known mode of action of this class of antibiotics. the copolymer beads, having 2-chloro-3-hydroxypropyl, were prepared by treating glycidyl methacrylate-1,4-divinylbenzene copolymer beads with hydrogen chloride. the produced modified beads were further treated with triethylphosphine, tributylphosphine, and trioctylphosphine. the antibacterial activities were examined against e. coli and s. aureus by measuring the decrease in the number of viable cells in bacteria suspension after contact with the resin for a prescribed time. the beads with trioctylphosphine exhibited high antibacterial activity against e. coli and s. aureus in water; however, the beads with triethylphosphine and tributylphosphine did not. for example, self-sterilizing packaging might eliminate the need for peroxide treatment in aseptic packaging. third, at least in concept, this could result in self-sterilizing foods, especially liquids. this might be particularly useful for high acid products such as fruit juices. antimicrobial polymers might also be used to cover surfaces of food processing equipment so that they self-sanitize during use. examples include filler gaskets, conveyers, gloves, garments, and other personal hygiene equipment. the target microorganism and the food composition must be considered in antimicrobial packaging. as with any antimicrobial agent, those to be incorporated into polymers have to be selected on the basis of their spectrum of activity, mode of action, chemical composition, and the rate of growth and physiological state of the targeted microorganisms. 119 antimicrobial moieties attached to the polymer, however, need to be active while attached to the polymer. this activity is related to the mode of action. if, for example, the mode of action is on the cell membrane or wall of the microorganism, it is possible that the attached antimicrobial agent will act on the cells. this is likely not to be the case if it needs to enter the cytoplasm. undoubtedly, the use of polymers in the medical field has reduced the suffering of humans and offered them a better hope for a better life. the range of application has been extended to include many fields such as artificial organs, drugs, health care products, implants, bone replacement and other prostheses, wound-healing, food, textile industry, and water treatment, etc. the field of antimicrobial polymers, which has progressed steadily, but slowly, over the past years, appears to be on the verge of rapid expansion, as evidenced by a broad variety of new classes of compounds that have been prepared and studied in the past few years. for example, a very novel approach to isolating biocidal moieties on the surfaces of polymers has recently been reported by wynne and co-workers. 132 this may be due to the current awareness about the spread of viruses such as hiv and hepatitis and by contact with contaminated surfaces that lead to more stringent health and medical regulation to treat most material with microbiocides. modification of polymers and fibrous surfaces, and changing the porosity, wettability, and other characteristics of the polymeric substrates, should produce implants and biomedical devices with greater resistance to microbial adhesion and biofilm formation. a number of polymers have been developed that can be incorporated into cellulose and other materials, which should provide significant advances in many fields such as food packaging, textiles, wound dressing, coating of catheter tubes, and necessarily sterile surfaces. the greater need for materials that fight infection will give incentive for discovery and use of antimicrobial polymers. of course, it should be kept in mind that newly developed biocidal polymers must strive to possess the attributes suggested in section 2 of this review. for example, biocidal polymers requiring contact times of the order of hours to provide substantial reductions in viable pathogens, such as some of those referenced in this review, really have no practical value; seconds, or minutes at most, should be the contact time goal for a real application. future work should focus on the development of new polymeric antimicrobial materials to be used for soil sterilization to replace the toxic materials currently in use such as methyl bromide. many interesting ideas were formulated through writing this review. of particular interest were the use of dendrimers as antimicrobial polymers and the use of n-halamine polymers as biocides. if one could combine both ideas by preparation of the dendrimer on an insoluble support and then modification of it to form n-halamines, this could be a very promising development. this study has shown that activities related to power generation and energy consumption has associated emissions with potential to influence greenhouse gas which is the main source of impending global warming. in reality, anthropogenic greenhouse gas emissions from energy activities are greater than the greenhouse gas emission from other human activities. essentially, the study also advocated the need to strategically tackle ghg reduction to prevent the sanctity of the global environmental distinction for sustainable development and biodiversity interaction. finally, it supported the need to increase renewable energy consumption to help in dealing with problems of energy security, energy control and health related problems. well, you know you bought bananas because you love bananas and you always buy them. also, you know you bought detergent because you needed to wash those two shirts. or did those freshly cleaned floors in the supermarket play a role as well? and what about the rest? you hardly ever buy peanut butter, but a small boy running through the aisles reminded you of your 5-year-old nephew who loves peanut butter. you bought a big rather than a small container of ice cream because you witnessed someone else grabbing a big container. and although you bought too many groceries because you were hungry, you forgot to buy coffee, perhaps because you thought about what birthday present to buy grandma while you negotiated the coffee aisle. unfortunately, the mere thought of your grandmother made you forgetful. apart from any fair dealing for the purposes of research or private study, or criticism or review, as permitted under the copyright, designs and patents act, 1988, this publication may be reproduced, stored or transmitted in any form, or by any means, only with the prior permission in writing of the publishers, or in the case of reprographic reproduction, in accordance with the terms of licences issued by the copyright licensing agency. enquiries concerning reproduction outside those terms should be sent to the publishers. dr rachel granger is an associate professor at middlesex business school specialising in economic geography and urban economies. her recent research focuses on the re-gentrification of hi-growth metropolitan regions as a result of mismanaged revitalisation works, and in-depth analysis of creative, digital and consumption economies using a variety of new research methods. international projects cover creative and digital economies, international investment in post-recession cities, the sharing and consumption economies, innovation in cultural heritage and the arts, live-work schemes in global cities and problem-based learning in regeneration studies. rachel is the south east policy chair for the institute of economic development and board member for three regeneration projects in london and the west midlands. in the introduction to the first edition of this book we observed that urban regeneration is a widely experienced but little understood phenomenon. although subsequently much has been done to rectify this lack of understanding, it remains the case that more needs to be done to provide insights and inspiration, based on advances in both theory and practice. then, as now, it is important to emphasise that there is no single prescribed form of urban regeneration practice and no single theoretical explanation that can be used to analyse all urban problem situations and develop appropriate solutions. in the much changed circumstances of the twentyfirst century, time and place both matter, and urban regeneration has to reflect the particular local circumstances which define it. it is also important to acknowledge that urban regeneration is not solely a reaction to changed circumstances. in some instances regeneration is proactive and seeks either to avoid an emerging problem, such as the consequences of decline of a basic industry, or to improve the prospects of a particular neighbourhood. an additional consideration that should be recognised at the outset is that there will be considerable variation within an urban area; even in prosperous cities some communities will be dominated by poor physical, environmental and socio-economic conditions, whilst even less prosperous towns will have their wealthy areas. physical conditions and social response urban areas have always performed a wide range of functions. shelter, security, social and political interaction, and the sale and purchase of goods and services are among the traditional roles of a town or city. the relative importance of each of these functions has changed over time and between places, and such changes have created new demands for land, floor space, infrastructure and the provision of a range of accompanying facilities. not surprisingly, some traditional urban areas, either in their entirety or in particular districts of a town, may discover that a previous function or sectoral specialisation is no longer required and that the facilities associated with this function are now redundant. in addition to the role of urban areas as a location for the human functions of living, working and recreation, the physical structures of towns and cities also represent a massive source of wealth. although the new challenge of environmentally sustainable development has not yet fully imposed its characteristics on the overall functioning of urban areas, there is little doubt that it will dominate the theory and practice of urban regeneration and urban management in the future. in the interim, at least in the united kingdom and other advanced nations, the consequences of the economic crisis of the first decade of this century have dominated much of policy and practice. looking forward the preceding paragraphs have outlined the evolution of urban regeneration policy, chiefly in england. it is important at this juncture to note the considerable variations in policy which have emerged over the past decade between regeneration policy in england and that developed in the devolved administrations in wales, scotland and northern ireland. this trend of greater variation is likely to continue and, in an era of austerity and with greater emphasis on the local, will result in even greater variation in policy and practice style in the future. through a process of dialogue and discussion, the partners establish common ground and work towards agreeing a vision and mission statement for the initiative. the original core group of partners might agree on the need to involve more individuals and organisations in the initiative. the partners develop mechanisms for assessing needs and quantifying the size of the task they propose to undertake. the initiative combines the information generated by the needs assessment exercise, together with the vision and mission statement to produce an agenda for action. individual schemes function best when clear priorities are set within the overall context of a strategic plan, recognising what can be realistically achieved within the resources available. a strategic framework can provide the setting within which a multiplicity of neighbourhood regeneration initiatives can establish their local visions of how they contribute to the locality as a whole. this approach allows the key strengths and weaknesses of an area to be analysed and individual area initiatives to be planned and managed within the overarching strategy. on the supply side, investment must be made to improve infrastructure including the building of new roads or improving existing roads and other communication links. at the same time, the land use planning and development system has had to respond to processes of deindustrialisation and changing patterns of demand to make land available for redevelopment. for example, the knowledge-driven economy has been enhanced through development of links between universities, government and developers in bringing forward science, technology and business parks. the coalisland regeneration project in northern ireland, a partnership of the local community, public agencies and local business, has made significant improvements to the centre of this declining industrial town. a community facility was provided in the refurbished cornmill, together with car parking, a water feature and landscaped area, and the conversion of a derelict factory and vacant premises into economic use. the community has been involved as an active partner in the development process, and this has led to a deeper feeling of ownership. the strength of the regeneration lies in the energy of the community which has led to a strong partnership approach. launched in 1987, urgs widened the scope and coverage of the udg scheme, with the main change being that developers could directly approach the government and bypass local authorities. to qualify, the sites for development had to be larger than 8 hectares. the urg and udg were later merged into the city grant which formed the principal policy initiative of the action for cities programme. city grant placed greater emphasis on leadership from the private sector by awarding grants directly to developers. cardiff bay is a large regeneration project in south wales and represents an example of a comprehensive scheme to redevelop a largely derelict area which had seen a rapid decline in its fortunes during the second part of the twentieth century. during the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries cardiff bay become a major port and commercial centre built around coal exporting and associated activities such as steel manufacture. even as late as 1987 the area provided some 15,000 jobs. as these traditional activities declined the area fell into disuse and dereliction. as noted earlier in the chapter the 1990s witnessed a sea change in the operation of urban regeneration, with emphasis moving away from targeting of grants on areas of perceived greatest need towards competitive bidding, joint ventures and partnerships open to all areas of the country. at the same time, the availability of european regional and social funding increased in importance. this shift placed emphasis on partners working together at the local level to create strategic frameworks for delivery of economic development, as well as developing skills in bid writing in order to unlock funds available at local, regional, national and european levels. with these changes came increased accountability for deployment and use of public funding for economic development at the local level. from this brief review of the history of financing for economic development in the uk, it is evident that a multitude of schemes, programmes and initiatives have come and gone over the past four decades. some have been more successful than others, but often they have been too short-term to have a long-term and sustainable impact upon the communities and areas targeted. often physical regeneration has occurred without impacting positively on the quality of life within communities. moreover, the most recent shift to a paradigm which emphasises the leadership role of the private sector, at a time of economic uncertainty and retrenchment, means that the securing of economic development funding is now even more open to risks associated with wider economic conditions, and as a result may reinforce spatial inequalities. notwithstanding this last point, the spirit of co-operation that has been fostered through the partnership approach to regeneration and economic development in the uk since the middle of the 1980s has provided a legacy of cross-boundary and cross-agency working that endures. in more detail, use of open water as a focus for regeneration may require extensive work to clean up and maintain water quality as in salford quays or air pollution from poorly controlled factories may be an inhibition to new development as was the case in certain parts of the black country which were affected by foundry emissions. such problems are by no means cheap to resolve, yet they can be critical to the success of a scheme and therefore need to be taken into account early in the development of the regeneration strategy. to this, one can add the additional and increasingly important issue of environmental sustainability and preparedness for peak oil and a post-carbon future. in all that we do, we must step up to the growing realities of sustainable living, be it food, employment, housing, energy, transport, etc. ensuring that all of these aspects are sustainable will necessitate major transformations to sites of work, the nature of work, how and where people live, and how urban space is used. these changes will not only become major regeneration projects in their own right, but even now will become key factors that influence long term plans and decision-making on regeneration more generally. the lives of individuals and communities can be shaped irrevocably by wider processes of transformation, which alter the trajectory of local economies and local lives. the 1930s depression and the deindustrialisation of western economies during the 1970s and 1980s represented for many severe shocks that played out financially, socially and physically. the global financial crisis, which is still ongoing in some parts of europe and has yet to fully play out, represents a more recent significant shock. whilst there have been some gains in additional income and wealth for individuals and communities in intervening periods, there has also been evidence of accumulating losses. losses in this context refers to slowing of growth, unemployment, mounting social distress and the exclusion of growing numbers of people from some parts of society, exacerbated by some policy approaches to redistribute income. this regeneration project utilised a derelict grade ii listed former watchmaking factory as the centrepiece of a major housing scheme aimed at providing extra care for elderly and vulnerable people. based on a partnership approach, the first ark group has led a comprehensive regeneration programme, which combines housing, health provision and social care. with support from the local authority, local health providers and other organisations the regeneration programme has provided 70 residential units with associated health and social care facilities. the scheme enables older and vulnerable people to remain living in the community, reduce their dependence on hospital care and release much-needed homes. in this context, right to the city is seen as a response to the growing inequalities of some urban areas, spurred by gentrification and privatisation of space, which calls for greater participatory community development and policy reform to bring about diverse and thriving communities without marginalisation. this is not to say that all urban renewal is bad and will lead inevitably to gentrification and by extension to social exclusion but that as always urban renewal needs to be undertaken sympathetically and within a wider programme of sustainable regeneration, which considers existing communities. in this chapter the complexities of poverty and by extension social exclusion were viewed as one area of social need. the growth in poverty is the most critical social problem that the uk now faces. the statistics point to a worsening environment of poverty despite the efforts of regeneration practitioners over two or more decades. empirical research such as that by the joseph rowntree foundation point to issues of dislocation, insecurity, multiple deprivation, conflict, divided loyalties and major social divisions between groups, which go beyond simple definitional measures of income shortage, and which will require more nuanced regeneration effort. at the time of writing, social divisions in ethnic groups, among disability groups, among children and the old, among migrants, and among hard-to-reach social excluded groups are the biggest priorities. in this chapter the nature of the employment issues facing uk cities and the local and national policy responses are explored within the context of sustainable regeneration before concluding with some thoughts about the future of our urban labour markets. the economic and employment fortunes of cities largely reflect the extent to which they have been affected by broad sectoral changes, which have occurred in the economy as a whole. generally, there has been a decline in employment in production industries and a rise in employment in services. as discussed in chapter 12 in the context of deindustrialisation of american cities, those which fared least well were dependent on production sectors and have been less successful in diversifying their economies, while those which have flourished have attracted new service employment and particularly professional services. many of these factors are ones which are long standing but nonetheless may be open to local influence through, for example, programmes to support innovation or training. nonetheless, all local initiatives need to be based on a sound understanding of local circumstances. this means that, as a minimum, local actors and agencies need to familiarise themselves with key concepts and information on the local labour market. an important concept might be: which labour market? as we are frequently told, the demand for investment bankers is global, whereas the demand for their office cleaners is local; commuting also adds a layer of complexity to decisions on defining a spatial focus for analysis and action. planning and housing supply the impact of planning policy is widely acknowledged as probably one of the most significant forms of state intervention in the housing market and has major implications for the supply and affordability of housing and, hence, the wider economy. the amount of, and location of housing are topics that evoke strong reactions and often widely polarised opinion. the principal tenets of the planning system include for example, urban containment through the prevention of urban sprawl and the protection of the greenbelt, as well as the need to align the varying kinds of urban development such as housing, jobs and transport. at the same time the planning processes and controls have a direct effect on the price and affordability of housing. the proportion of affordable housing as well as infrastructure is often paid for from new housing developments. the purpose of this chapter has been to provide practitioners and students with a broad overview of the some of the key dynamics that have influenced housing together with the tension that exists between demand and supply, and between well-being, sustainability and political paradigms. as well as providing an account of the fortunes of housing in the context of public policy, the intention has been to stimulate thinking about where housing finds itself in the continuum from welfare to more market driven economic considerations. although it has always predominantly been orientated towards home ownership, for a period of several decades a substantial amount of housing was more firmly rooted in welfare state provision in the form of council housing and latterly through housing associations. the legal powers each of the interested parties has are likely to have a key bearing on which delivery vehicle is used. the powers justification for a local authority participating in a spv structure would typically rely principally on the promotion of social, economic and environmental well-being powers in the local government act 2000, with the local authority needing to be satisfied that the mechanism to be adopted in relation to the project implementation is considered as likely to achieve its desired objectives in the context of the project. since the introduction of the localism act 2011, section 1 now grants to local authorities the power to do anything that individuals may generally do, and this may become the principal powers justification for participation in a spv structure in the future. the final form of agreement referred to is a pre-emption agreement. this merely gives the developer a right of first refusal should the seller decide to dispose of his interest. this is unlikely to be attractive to a developer, especially in relation to an important element of the site. however, the developer may use a pre-emption agreement in relation to any area of land which, for example, could be used in the future for the expansion of a proposed scheme. third party rights the development of a site has the potential to interfere with third party rights. if the proposed development interferes with the rights enjoyed by third parties, this can give rise to an injunction to stop the development or may result in a claim in damages. it is important that the title to a site is investigated as early as possible. in the case of a title which is registered, this can, in part, be carried out without the need for any co-operation from the landowner as details of the title are available at the various district land registries. however, in the case of a title which is unregistered, the developer will be unable to examine the title deeds and documents without the co-operation of the landowner. restrictive covenants these are restrictions on a title which limit what can be done on a site. it may be necessary to consider the rules governing the enforceability of covenants to see whether a covenant is enforceable and if so by whom. it is not always clear who has the benefit of a restrictive covenant. unlike the burden of a covenant, the right is not usually registered on the title of the land having the benefit of it, and, especially with older covenants, the developer may take a view that a covenant will not be enforced. the developer should bear in mind that it will be necessary to convince prospective tenants, fund providers and purchasers that a covenant is unenforceable. the statutory definition of contaminated land introduced by the environment act 1995 is relevant. the result of this appears to be that if there is no harm or significant possibility of harm, land is not contaminated within the meaning of the relevant statute, despite the presence of harmful matter. land is contaminated only if the harm, or risk of harm, to the non-aquatic environment is significant, or if there is any risk of water pollution. the result is that, probably, the provisions will only affect the most severely contaminated sites. usually, the local planning authority has eight weeks within which to determine an application for planning permission or thirteen weeks for a major development and sixteen weeks if an environmental assessment is required. however, it will take longer if complex issues are involved and often the time limit is regarded only as a target. if the local planning authority refuses to grant planning permission, grants it with unacceptable conditions or fails to determine it within the time limit, an appeal can be lodged. the determination of the appeal may involve a public inquiry. decisions resulting from an appeal can take many months to obtain. it is, therefore, important at the outset to obtain a realistic planning appraisal of the proposed project. some types of development have to be referred to the secretary of state before they can be granted permission by the local planning authority. an example would be some developments which are proposed to be in the green belt. the secretary of state can call the application in for his determination and as this may involve a public inquiry, this can significantly delay the determination of the planning application. it is therefore important to identify at an early stage any application which will have to be referred to the secretary of state. section 106 obligations are frequently entered into to facilitate a grant of planning permission. these are agreements or unilateral undertakings by the developer to carry out what is known as planning gain which may, for example, include a restriction on the use or development of the land, the carrying out of specified operations or the payment of a sum of money. such an obligation is binding on subsequent land owners. a typical example of an obligation in such an agreement is an obligation to provide a proportion of affordable housing on a residential development. since april 2015 there is a limit on the ability of local planning authorities to pool more than five section 106 contributions towards a single item or infrastructure plot. listed buildings consent if the development involves works which will affect the character of a listed building, then in addition to a grant of planning permission, it will be necessary to obtain listed building consent. details of whether or not a building is listed can be obtained from the local authority through a search. it is important to make an early assessment of whether listed building consent will be required, because the procedure for obtaining listed building consent is very similar to the procedure for obtaining planning permission and the two often run hand in hand, and are subject to similar time frames and rights of appeal. demolition of a building in a conservation area a local authority search will reveal whether or not a site lies within a conservation area. if it does, then planning permission may be required for demolition of a building within the conservation area. in any event, any application for planning permission will be considered more stringently in terms of the proposed design of the scheme or project if the site lies within a conservation area. trees in a conservation area are also subject to special protection. highway closure and diversion orders in order to implement a planning permission for development it may be necessary to close or divert a public highway. if so, there are procedures set out in the town and country planning act 1990 and highways act 1980 that can be used in appropriate cases to close or divert a public right of way. again the additional time and expense need to be accounted for in the development programme and specialist legal advice will usually be required. this chapter has provided on overview of some of the major areas of law that are relevant to the preparation and implementation of an urban regeneration scheme or project. as can be gathered from the text, there are many individual circumstances and situations in which special conditions or aspects of the law apply. however, in general, the key message of this chapter is that it is essential to obtain good legal advice at the outset of an urban regeneration scheme. by adopting this approach, many potential difficulties and obstacles can be identified in advance, and the appropriate permissions or agreements can be obtained or achieved in good time, thereby avoiding any unnecessary delays or excessive costs. anticipation and early action can prevent difficulties from becoming problems. measuring, monitoring and evaluating urban regeneration is an important task for policy-makers. indeed, the availability of financial and other forms of support for projects and programmes is normally tied to the provision of an acceptable framework for monitoring and evaluation. in addition, given the wide range of partners and organisations involved in urban regeneration, it is important to be able to demonstrate the benefits of initiatives and to be able to point to the origins and consequences of any difficulties that have been encountered during the delivery process. in broad terms, monitoring and evaluation attempt to identify what actions have taken place and what the outcomes and impacts of such actions have been. revisions to aims an additional purpose of measuring and monitoring progress is to assist in the review and revision of a plan or strategy for regeneration and the identification of any new challenges which may emerge. if an unexpected change occurred, then it may be necessary to revise the expected targets and, in such circumstances, it may also be necessary to introduce additional measures in order to attract additional companies to locate in the area, to encourage existing companies to expand their activities, or revise the strategy. such a review and revision is normal and should not be interpreted as indicating the failure of either the original strategy or the process of implementation. however, it may be the case that the original target was unrealistic or that unexpected problems have emerged which could have been anticipated at the outset. hence the evaluation process can be used as an input to policy adjustment or to keep policy on track. thus market failure in the commercial property market may give rise to a dearth of suitable accommodation for existing firms to grow, inward investment or new firms. this in turn may reduce the prospects of the local unemployed finding employment, thereby exacerbating market failure in the local labour market as the duration of unemployment increases and the skills of the unemployed labour force wither. in these circumstances, the strategy must recognise the need for an interrelated and co-ordinated programme of initiatives, addressing a range of problems and with policy priorities being determined by the perceived relative importance of different problems. it provides no information on the nature of inner city unemployment such as the average duration of unemployment, the age and skill structure of the unemployed and its geographical density; it will not include those who are seeking work but not registered; it provides no indication of whether the problem is likely to worsen significantly in the future; it may not provide information on the extent of under employment, or skills gaps and recruitment difficulties and the mismatch between the demand for, and supply of, labour. an important aspect of problem definition is that of specifying target groups and target geographical areas. for policy to maximise cost effectiveness it is essential that the outputs of policy reach those groups for which it is designed. for example, a policy targeted on creating jobs for inner city unemployed residents either directly, or indirectly, may fall short of achieving its objectives if commuters from outside the inner city area successfully compete for any jobs created in the inner city and if any jobs thus made available elsewhere are inaccessible to inner city residents. another example is that of subsidies paid to firms, which may partly end up in profits with perhaps only limited benefits to the local urban economy and its residents. these examples illustrate the dangers of policy missing the target if there is no evaluation or impact model guiding those responsible for developing policy. considerations of cost effectiveness also raise questions concerning the responsiveness of different groups to policy intervention. setting strategy objectives the objectives chosen for the strategy should relate explicitly to the problems identified and to their underlying causes and, most importantly, to the agreed priorities of the strategy. they should also be realistic and achievable, and recognise the constraints within which the strategy is formulated. this suggests that there is no simple definition of the objectives of policy intervention aimed at regenerating urban areas, but rather a hierarchy of objectives at the top of which is an agreed overall aim of policy followed by the strategic objectives of a particular programme or project e. g. , property and physical infrastructure. having defined the specific objectives of a programme or project it is possible to identify specific operational objectives and objectives associated with individual targets and milestones. participation and take-up measuring and monitoring the extent to which a programme or project reaches its intended target is essential particularly in economic and social programmes in which participation is voluntary, as in business support initiatives and those focusing on local residents. managing a project or programme efficiently requires accurate and timely information on target participation and this is particularly so with innovative schemes where adjustments may be necessary if take-up falls below target. a bias in participation and coverage may occur partly as a consequence of self selection, differences in information access by different groups and because of rejection or reluctance to participate in the programme. at issue here is the vexed problem of identifying and measuring what otherwise would have happened if a policy or programme had not been pursued, i. e. the counterfactual or deadweight. establishing effectiveness amounts to establishing cause and effect, and additionality arises when there is a departure from what otherwise would have happened had the policy intervention not occurred, that is, there is a departure from the counter-factual. thus additionality exists when the outputs or benefits of the policy would not have been generated in the absence of the policy. the question of additionality can arise both with intermediate outputs and with final outputs of policy. there can also be wider spillover effects that arise from additional property investment in the area arising from the demonstration effects of the ez, the clustering of businesses in core sectors, for example from inward investment, the diffusion and transfer of technology stemming from businesses that improved their performance and become more innovative, improvements in the image of the area, and positive impacts on the more disadvantaged groups and unemployed as job opportunities increase and are more widely distributed with consequent social benefits for localities. programme or project costs and inputs identifying and measuring the costs associated with an urban regeneration strategy is an important step in developing performance indicators for judging whether the programme or project is worthwhile, whether more resources should be devoted to it and how resources allocated to different projects within the programme might be modified to improve overall effectiveness and efficiency. policy-makers, managers and funders are therefore inevitably faced with the problem of how best to allocate scarce resources to achieve the objectives of the regeneration strategy. this methodology is designed to compare different geographically targeted programmes and initiatives. however, even where the cost-effectiveness methodology is deployed there are difficulties when initiatives are concerned with improving the access to jobs for specific target groups, such as ethnic minorities or long-term unemployed, rather than merely creating new jobs in a particular geographical area. in these circumstances the evaluation must aim to assess the specific benefits to particular target groups within an area. the detailed discussions in this chapter have introduced a number of concepts, procedures and methods for the measurement, monitoring and evaluation of urban regeneration. irrespective of the purpose of urban regeneration, and despite the many changes that have occurred in terms of the different organisations and partnerships and the types of policy interventions, one thing is certain, and that is that the partners in urban regeneration will always be required to demonstrate that they have a clear rationale and overall aims, how they intend to set and achieve their objectives, and how they will measure, monitor and evaluate the actions which they have taken. it should also now be clear that the basic rules, regulations and procedures used in relation to measurement, monitoring and evaluation do not change significantly over time. the treasury, government departments and agencies, the european commission and private funding institutions may use various terminologies, but the principles remain the same. the key issues and actions in connection with measurement, monitoring and evaluation are summarised below. lessons from the past there are some lessons to be learnt from past approaches to regeneration. margaret thatcher advocated property-led regeneration, but this benefited business people rather than needy residents. the srb recognised the need to bring together the financial resources of several local authority departments, but regeneration proposals did not always analyse the inter-related causes of problems and delivery mechanisms. they were therefore prone to ignore the true causes of problems and the effectiveness of the proposed interventions. implementation of some srb projects was assigned to an external contractor lacking the integrated approach. understanding what went wrong an effective regeneration strategy is founded on a clear idea of what is wrong at present, what caused the current situation, and who is suffering or gaining in consequence. decline is often a long and complex process due to inter-related causes which may be due to external factors such as wars, the world economy, etc. , but often are the result of internal changes in housing policies, services and economic investments. knowing the causes is key to successful regeneration. in the uk, the position bears striking resemblance. deindustrialisation of the industrial heartland of the midlands, northeast and northwest began during the early 1970s and continued throughout the 1980s decimating the industrial power houses of glasgow, newcastle, leeds, manchester, liverpool, sheffield, nottingham and birmingham, which led to wholsescale changes in the economic and demographic base of many industrial regions. whilst it is true that urban restructuring and revitalisation has taken place on both sides of the atlantic, real estate projects and growth of service sector jobs as part of wider attempts to stem decline from deindustrialisation in the years leading up to the millennium and in the years afterwards have been hit hard by the global financial crisis, which impacted on usa and uk cities first before evolving into a full crisis and global recession. aggressive rates of new housing construction added 2,500 condominiums to the downtown area in the five-year period to 2006 and was marketed to young professionals as being close to arts and cultural institutions and within entertainment districts. as history now dictates, neither strategy was sustainable. rehabilitated housing has been associated with the questionable lending practices of banks and mortgage associations working with low-income groups, which were most closely linked to foreclosures and led to the banking crisis. at the same time, the new condominium developments were eclipsed by high vacancy rates, and as the crisis began to unfold and service sector jobs contracted, the city experienced the exodus of the same footloose professionals and visitors who were being lured to regenerate the city. in northern ireland, ilex is an urban regeneration company for derry-londonderry established to champion sustainable economic, physical and social regeneration in the city. it has facilitated the completion of a number of large projects, including the peace bridge, the city of culture in 2013 and is progressing the redevelopment of the ebrington barracks in the city centre. the town centre partnership fund in wales is intended to support town centre partnerships. projects in newport, neath port talbot, blaenau gwent, rhondda cynon taff, vale of glamorgan and wrexham are seeking variously to reduce fuel poverty and the number of vacant properties, diversify and promote alternative uses, such as residential and leisure, and extend wifi. this diverse urban centre focus illustrates the different make-up and needs of local communities. for northern ireland, the gradual implementation of the review of public administration, the re-configuration of local authority boundaries and empowerment of local government will see planning, community planning, well-being and regeneration all become local government responsibilities. significantly, and reflecting a persistent theme in northern ireland, regeneration continues to be aligned with community development. transferring regeneration powers to local councils after a period of more than four decades of centralised responsibility will put local government under the spotlight, requiring leadership, vision and confidence in order not to fail community expectations and to work with its diverse communities. all of the urban areas of europe must cope with the challenges of urban regeneration. over the past 25 years it has become apparent that integrated urban regeneration has emerged as the leading paradigm, even though the concept is applied in different ways in the various countries and cities. in assessing the value of integrated urban regeneration, good or best practice is important and looking back there is now an established history of evaluations of urban regeneration schemes and projects. as a result, the explicit recognition of an urban dimension in various eu policies has increased. the directorate-general for regional policy of the european commission is primarily in charge of urban matters. it is responsible for regional policy and cohesion. this explains why it focuses on projects which are intended to contribute to the economic functioning and the well-being of urban areas, including the contribution to the development of the region that an urban area is part of. d-g regio is not the only commission service involved in urban issues; a broad range of activities is covered by other services. brownfields constitute abandoned or under-used industrial or commercial sites associated with an earlier era of economic activity. typically they include the docklands precincts that served the sea trade prior to containerisation, outdated commercial high-rise buildings, abandoned manufacturing sites, sections of railways, vacant petrol stations, formerly viable retail sites, etc. they are typically owned by a single party, usually government or industry; of a scale which is closer to that provided by greenfield sites for development; contaminated to some degree, depending upon the nature of prior use; and unoccupied, obviating the need for community engagement at a level required of greyfields. g. steelworks) was also a waterfront site. fast-forward to the latter part of the twentieth century. the size of vessels now involved in global shipping requires deeper draughts and access to extensive container terminals and freight-forwarding infrastructure have made the original facilities obsolete. much heavy industry has also moved to countries where the factors of production and access to global markets are more favourable than in australian cities. there is a commonality with cities in other developed countries in this regard. docklands, melbourne as a result of the better cities program, brownfields have become attractive to the property development and finance industry who have been able to create a development model to undertake major projects such as southbank, docklands and federation square in melbourne, darling harbour and barangaroo in sydney, newport quays in port adelaide and southbank in brisbane. they represent an important contribution to the revitalisation of abandoned urban land and to the net additional housing stock in growing cities, but at a level which is unlikely to meet aggregate metropolitan demand for new infill housing. in offering this summary and glimpse of the future, the authors are aware of the dangers that are inherent in attempting to either distil the vast range of present-day experience into a single summary of current challenges, or develop a definitive view of future prospects. indeed, these concerns are of such significance that the best that the present authors can claim is that what follows represents their personal views of what currently exists and what might develop in the future. essentially a strategic activity; focused around developing and achieving a clear vision of what action should take place; concerned with the totality of the urban scene; engaged in the search for both short-term solutions to immediate difficulties and long-term approaches that anticipate and avoid potential problems; interventionist in approach, but not dirigiste by nature; often best achieved through a partnership approach; concerned with setting priorities and allowing for their achievement; intended to benefit a range of organisations, agencies and communities; supported by various sources of skill and finance; capable of being measured, evaluated and reviewed; related to the specific needs and opportunities present in an individual region, city, town or neighbourhood; linked to other appropriate policy areas and programmes. this discussion leads to the consideration of what is the most appropriate scale of action for urban regeneration, and here there is little chance of providing a straightforward answer. over the last 30 years of the twentieth century the scale considered appropriate for the definition of urban problems and the design of urban policy has shifted from the very local to the city-region, to the neighbourhood or district, back again to the region, and now back to the neighbourhood with an emerging concern for city-region approaches. partnership, strategy and sustainable development form a troika of approaches that determine and drive successful regeneration. they enable urban regeneration to be more than the sum of its constituent parts and they provide a basis for comprehensive and integrated action. these roles and characteristics have figured significantly in this book and they represent the foundation stones upon which the wider contribution of urban regeneration to the creation of sustainable communities has been built. each of these factors can be seen to represent a specific role and to make a particular contribution. 1 unexplained symptoms are particularly common amongst frequent users of healthcare services. 2 up to two thirds of these patients have symptomatic psychiatric comorbidity and many describe suicidal ideation if asked. 3 4 neurologists need to be able not only to diagnose symptoms as functional but also to communicate with and manage patients in whom no clear organic explanation for found. this article addresses some of the common questions which neurologists face when they see patients with functional symptoms. antidepressants may be useful in the treatment of patients with functional symptoms. they may even be effective for those without a depressive syndrome. 98 antidepressants have been shown to reduce emotional dysregulation,99 a personality trait associated with functional symptoms. 100 one of the most common reasons for non-response to antidepressants is an inadequate dose given for an inadequate length of time. 101 neurologists should anticipate that nearly three quarters of neurological outpatients think antidepressants are addictive, and nearly half think they can do physical harm. 102 patients who can see the reasons for taking medication are more likely to complete the course. we present a new r software package lawstat that contains statistical tests and procedures that are utilized in various litigations on securities law, antitrust law, equal employment and discrimination as well as in public policy and biostatistics. along with the well known tests such as the bartels test, runs test, tests of homogeneity of several sample proportions, the brunner-munzel tests, the lorenz curve, the cochran-mantel-haenszel test and others, the package contains new distribution-free robust tests for symmetry, robust tests for normality that are more sensitive to heavy-tailed departures, measures of relative variability, levene-type tests against trends in variances etc. all implemented tests and methods are illustrated by simulations and real-life examples from legal cases, economics and biostatistics. although the package is called lawstat, it presents implementation and discussion of statistical procedures and tests that are also employed in a variety of other applications, e. g. , biostatistics, environmental studies, social sciences and others, in other words, all applications utilizing statistical data analysis. hence, name of the package should not be considered as a restriction to legal statistics. there is a need for a coordinated set of community studies to develop and evaluate interventions in a variety of settings, together with policy and macroeconomic studies on issues at the national level, such as fuel pricing incentives and other ways of increasing access by the poor to cleaner fuels. also required is a systematic, standardized approach to monitoring levels and trends of exposure in a representative range of poor rural and urban populations. higher demand, higher energy prices and lower output inadvertently have led to higher food prices. moreover, agricultural policies, such as those of the eu, tend to protect local farmers and markets. closed markets in turn have made it very diffi cult for rural farmers in developing countries to sustain or improve their production, contributing to the massive urbanization that has occurred worldwide. this example underscores that processes of production and consumption have grown intricately linked on a global scale. there is at least one important lesson to be drawn from this story: we need an integral solution that takes the interconnections between the various social domains into account. put diff erently: we need a systemic perspective on both the various problems involved and their solutions. in the dynamics involved new alternatives may start to compete, dominant options may begin to experience pressures, and tensions may increase between diff erent actor strategies, powers and institutions. the uncertainties around many of these developments are high, which is one of the reasons for diff erent actors to make diff erent assessments regarding the urgency of the problem and the desired direction. understanding the past, present and possible future dynamics requires a perspective covering a sustained, long-term period; considering interactions at and between diff erent levels of scale, actors and domains; and enabling multi and interdisciplinary research. the transition approach, as the central point of departure in this book, in fact provides such perspective. importantly, the history of energy regimes determines to a large extent the possibilities for shaping and governing desired transitions to sustainable energy systems. as argued in chapters 2 and 4 in this volume, we need to consider much longer timeframes than those normally used in the policy domain, and search for ways to mediate between gradual change in existing regimes and rapid diff usion of successful alternatives. this means developing anticipatory and adaptive capacity way beyond the existing ways in which policies and strategies are developed and implemented from within the context of the existing regimes. it implies that new kinds of governance are needed that are able to develop coherent alternative technologies, institutions, practices and cultures anticipating possible systemic shocks parallel to improving and adapting existing regimes to changing circumstances and to the successful alternatives. in other words, governance strategies that are able to break open the lock-in pathway in which current energy systems are trapped. in chapter 2, this volume, vincent lagendijk and geert verbong provide a brief survey of historical transitions in fuel usage by humans: from a society that relies on organic resources and energy supplied by animals and human beings to an industrialized society based on fossil fuels, initially coal and, as the twentieth progressed, more and more oil and natural gas. the fossil fuels constituted the basis of the expanding energy supply networks, the electrical grids, gas networks and, to a lesser degree, heating systems. the authors illustrate several main landscape developments that have a major impact on the development of our energy systems after the second world war and the responses of governments in general, and the eu in particular, to the challenges of energy crisis, volatile energy prices, political dependencies and, increasingly, the unsustainable character of our current energy systems. next, in chapter 9 of this volume, geert verbong and frank geels use the transition pathway typology proposed by geels and schot to explore a set of possible futures for the electricity system. these range from the emergence of a super grid that links large-scale renewable power plants all over europe and north africa to the turn to local and regional autarkic electricity systems. this exploration shows that there is not one but there are many roads to a more sustainable electricity system. although the debate on transitions in the energy domain usually focuses on technological innovation, technological feasibility is not the main issue; a future transition will be determined by economic, socio-cultural and institutional dynamics. an environmental concern such as climate change serves as just one of the criteria that drive the development of energy systems, next to cost effi ciency, reliability, reduction of dependency and social control. for this reason, we should not take for granted that we are actually moving towards a more sustainable future. in order to address these issues we need to think about how the diff erent elements of a regime circulate and travel and what these forms of mobility mean for the likelihood, or otherwise, of convergence. in addition, we need to relate these questions to others regarding the relative power or dominance of one element in relation to others that together comprise the geometry of the whole. when put like this, it is no longer obvious that nation states constitute appropriate points of reference or analysis. in coming to a conclusion i want to go back to the discussion with which i began and to a consideration of the relation between supply and consumption and its importance for studies of energy transitions. those who write about new forms of energy supply, including the development and diff usion of more sustainable or renewable options, concentrate on the potential for substitution. the basic assumption is that less damaging forms of supply can take the place of others responsible for co2 emissions and related forms of harm. the present chapter follows up on this line of research. in the terminology of the multi-level perspective on sustainability transitions that informs this book, it examines the dynamics of stability and change of incumbent energy regimes. scrutinizing if and how such regimes resist change, we make theoretical as well as empirical contributions. we start with a theoretical consideration of the notion of regime that constitutes our unit of analysis, and propose several amendments to existing practices of regime analysis. in particular, we call for symmetrical analysis of regime stability and change; make a case for a transnational perspective on transitions, and on regime dynamics in particular; and explore landscape-regime interactions as a site for negotiating transnational regime stability and change. in practice, however, many characteristics of the older mode of governance remains in place. in particular, when new transnational pipelines are built, these continue to be based on very long-term contractual arrangements, for the same reasons as earlier. the promise of ccs is to mitigate co2 emissions from fossil fuel power plants, as well as from other co2 point sources. it thus could help to continue the present energy provision regime while mitigating climate change. engineers around the world have turned to ways to capture co2 and bury it in deep underground. there are basically two ways of capturing co2 from the air: by growing organisms through photosynthesis, and by separating and storing co2 from a concentrated waste stream. capturing co2 from growing biomass is mostly called carbon sequestration; it can be achieved by growing trees or other plants, or growing algae. in this way it is possible to capture co2 from the air. through biomass as feedstock for power plants there could be a virtually closed loop of co2 with an atmospheric retention time of a limited number of years. this same study also revealed that 70 percent of the population had not heard about ccs; their opinion should thus be considered a pseudoopinion because it could quickly change in response to new information. the researchers claim that the public does not understand the causal logic between electricity production by coal power plants causing co2 emissions and global warming. if people are informed on all aspects of the technology, there is a lukewarm endorsement of about 60 to 65 percent; these data may be diff erent, however, if other mitigation options, such as conservation or renewables, are also taken into account. this intentional shaping of a global niche through a policy program was not without struggle, however. grassroots organizations and engaged scientists objected to the shift from farm-level to centralized biogas generation. for a long time organizations that advocated local energy generation, such as the folkecenter for renewable energy, were left without substantial support from policy programs. nevertheless, they acted as a small niche that protected a dedicated set of local experimental activities for farm-level plants, which in the second half of the 1990s resulted in a re-emergence of farm-level biogas plants in denmark. the second discourse was the environmental discourse with a focus on local environmental problems, such as smog and, increasingly, global problems such as climate change. given that the government did not believe in the environmental potential of biofuels based on agricultural crops, projects were funded only because of their support to the livelihoods of farmers. support was given on an ad hoc basis; it was always the outcome of lobbying by local politicians and biofuel supporters with links to the national political parties. a permanent policy was only introduced after 2003, when the eu biofuel directive forced the dutch government to do so. however, while previous bioenergy experiments had largely utilized local and homogenous biomass sources such as waste resources from wood processing industries, utilities needed much larger quantities. for this reason, they experimented with much more variety in organic waste materials such as sewage sludge and demolition wood as well as importing biomass from developing countries. whereas some applauded the utilities for their eff ort to move away from coal, it also sparked controversy: local communities and environmental ngos argued that combusting waste such as demolition wood in coal plants caused an increase in toxic emissions and that importing biomass from developing countries was undesirable because of risks of mono-culture, exploitation of indigenous communities and increasing emissions from global transport. the role of private end-users is often neglected, by governments and industries alike, when considering the diff usion of energy technology. this tends to hold back developments. the rapid diff usion of a radically new technology suddenly confronts many new actors with its potentially disruptive eff ects. market diffusion tends to raise resistance among selectors that have previously been uninvolved. as a response to the diff usion into the incumbent energy system, actors within the incumbent energy system may attempt to encapsulate the emerging technology in order to control its disruptive potential. the result is that new entrants are excluded from the tis and unable to exploit opportunities. it may be more insightful to consider the analogy of stages in the development of an ecosystem. a developing ecosystem may start out with poor soil conditions only allowing a basic vegetation to grow. these pioneering plants then shape their environment in such a way that conditions improve, thereby eventually inducing a more demanding set of organisms to colonize the ecosystem. ecosystems may expand and develop into more complex systems, or they may become subject to decline. if the exact dynamics are impossible to predict, the notion of succession is nevertheless useful as it helps to understand the possible mechanisms that underlie system development. the event history analysis method provides a powerful basis for conducting case studies in such a way that they can be compared. if carried out properly, a series of case studies could result in theoretical insights in the dynamics of emerging technologies. in light of the insights developed so far, it seems particularly interesting to develop a framework in which various forms of cumulative causation, i. e. , motors of innovation, are related to each other. the possibility of motors following up on each other would open up important opportunities for intervention strategies. given the scale of change associated with socio-technical transitions theory, deep attention has to be given to civil society roles in these transitions, both empirically and in theorizing. what visions do civil associations hold, and what roles do they play in transitions processes? where, when and why do their activities matter? what kinds of policy support might help civil associations play a more eff ective and legitimate role in the development of new, more sustainable energy systems? in addition to transitions viewed variously as something done to communities, analysis needs also to scrutinize transition processes that emerge from civil society, the ways civil society responds to the disruptions of transition, and deliberate what this means for policy, for business and for civil associations. the purpose in this chapter is to begin to relate civil society activities in sustainable energy to socio-technical transitions theory. considering these processes together, others might be tempted to consider civil society activities as potentially contributing to coherent transition management processes. this would be going too far. certainly, the diverse visions and activities within civil society could and should be better engaged in public deliberations over energy transitions pathways. indeed, whether invited to such deliberations or not, developments amongst associations within civil society are always opening up socio-technical systems to new values, criteria and possibilities. however, whilst civil society is always an important presence in socio-technical systems and their transformations, it is important to remember that it is never a singular, manageable presence. if it were, then it would cease to be civil society. in this pathway major, often divergent landscape changes lead to huge pressure on the regime. as a result, the regime experiences major internal problems, collapses, erodes and de-aligns. regime actors lose faith in the future of the existing system. the destabilization of the regime creates uncertainty about dimensions on which to optimize innovation eff orts. at the moment the regime starts to fall apart, there is not yet a stable niche-innovation available, but eventually one option will become dominant. the sustained period of uncertainty because of the lack of a clear alternative, is characterized by the co-existence of multiple niche-innovations and widespread experimentation. this can lead to a major restructuring of the system, the re-alignment and re-institutionalization into a new regime, involving new actors, guiding principles, beliefs and practices. we conceptualize the etp as an emerging policy niche related to the existing dominant energy policy regime. as we describe in more detail below, this project started out as an experiment led by just a handful of civil servants who initiated the build up of a diverse societal network and a transition agenda. our analysis will show that the etp has been quite successful in developing into the dominant frame for energy innovation policies within the dutch energy policy domain. as a now established and strengthened niche, however, it has not yet been able to change the dominant energy regime: the netherlands still underperforms in terms of producing sustainable energy, is still highly dependent on fossil fuels and faces increasing energy consumption. because the essential transition has not been realized yet, we should ask not only how transition management took shape within the context of our national government, but also what the actual impact of this eff ort has been and how it should be assessed. although the previous sections have clearly illustrated that the etp managed to generate a broad set of innovative eff orts and new strategies and projects, it is safe to conclude that so far a fundamental societal and policy shift towards an energy transition has failed to materialize in the netherlands. the country now seems to be entering a phase in which competition between the etp and the energy policy regime will intensify. as the etp has evolved and alternatives have matured, dominant interests start to become more defensive and an innovationand vision-based strategy no longer suffi ces to scale-up the etp. however, later on the platforms looked for individuals with a vision, particularly those from frontrunner companies or from innovative segments of the large companies, whereby they were assumed to take part as individuals, rather than as representatives of their companies. the platforms were deliberately limited in size, but each platform created ways to communicate regularly with a larger group of stakeholders: to discuss the plans developed by the platform and to ensure that useful innovative ideas circulating elsewhere in the market would be picked up by the platform. a broad implementation and up-scaling of innovative developments is needed, and this poses a main challenge to the etp because it would involve system change and, consequently, a confrontation with the incumbent energy regime. the etp seeks to accomplish this shift with initiatives from the platforms and the et-board. new strategies and instruments are required in this eff ort, however, and it is rather questionable whether they can be developed and implemented within the current policy context. there is an increasing dynamic in energy transition activities at the regional and local level. municipalities want to build effi cient houses transcending current standards and want to establish local renewable utilities. small innovative companies come up with many new ideas and press for realization. environmental groups within political parties have put energy transition on the agenda of parliament. dozens of local communities are developing their own energy production. one can argue that energy transition dynamics are growing decentralized, or that regional, local and grassroots initiatives are starting to set the pace and direction of the energy transition. the second challenge will be to strengthen and broaden the sustainability undercurrent. more societal stakeholders and consumers should be involved in etp. clear and challenging perspectives and transition paths are available now, set out by the etp. the objective is to seek ways to unite consumers and stakeholders on these guiding perspectives and turn them into shared societal goals in order to develop strong political impact. frontrunners in business, in local and regional initiatives and in political and social organizations should have more space for innovative experiments and should be better facilitated. the question is to what extent there is a role here for national policy, as it has inherent diffi culties with the decentralized and diverse nature of bottom-up processes. when for example desired innovative developments come to the phase of market-implementation, they could be adopted into regulatory schemes. examples include the abovementioned energy-label, now obligatory for home-owners when they want to sell their home, the out-phasing of the traditional light bulb, the feed-in tariff or regulation on energy standards for new buildings. if these represent only small steps, they indicate an increased willingness and consensus about their need. it is, however, questionable whether politics will be able to take more, more radical and larger-scale decisions in this realm, as the uncertainties and societal polarization increase. this dimension includes the more directly observable inputs, activities, outputs and outcomes of projects, transition dynamics and developments in the program portfolio. the third dimension involves the issue of normative sustainability, or analyzing actual changes and guiding scenarios in terms of what constitutes sustainability or their sustainability eff ect. program management requires aligning these dimensions in order to generate changes in practices, culture and structure in the direction of a guiding scenario that is sustainable. such a hub has negative connotations of collecting harmful emissions and waste, whereas a green gas hub has more positive, green connotations. partly as a result of the discussion, the platform continued thinking about the connection between diff erent hubs. several months later, the gas hub features prominently on the etp front page as one of the main developments supported by the etp, and the platform works on local green gas hubs in which diff erent digesters cooperate to inject, collect and process biogas and feed it into the regular gas network. to introduce micro-chp, the platform stimulates an adaptationabsorption pattern that resulted in broad support of the current installation branch, energy companies and boiler makers and dedicated networks for coordination and advocacy outside the etp. the question is if such a consensus-based strategy for micro-chp, seen from a scenario towards distributed electricity supply systems, will not come with the risk of an early lock-in. key actors in the installation sector and boiler makers may feel they have done their share and oppose other promising innovations in this scenario, such as fuel cells and smart-grids. these innovations present a threat to the interests and competences of some of the actors involved in micro-chp. based on these criteria it can be argued that there is an international transitions epistemic community emerging. an international and interdisciplinary community of experts is forming who share norms and values around the necessity for sustainability transitions, as well as causal beliefs in how transitions occur, and have a common policy enterprise. this network might aid the process of adopting tm ideas into policy practices beyond the netherlands. this community might be able to translate core tm ideas into diff erent institutional contexts and could therefore potentially become an important agency for policy learning. the chapter nevertheless argued that because of their appeal and despite the unclear evaluation of the success of the etp, transition management ideas could potentially travel to other countries. the remainder of the chapter then looked at how a diff usion of tm ideas might happen. discourse analysis is introduced as a way to analyze the role of the science-policy interface which played a crucial role in adopting transition management in the netherlands. this case is contrasted with a case study of a policy process in the uk which was also aimed at promoting the transition to a low carbon economy. diff erences between the roles the science-policy interfaces played in these two cases were pointed out. whereas researchers had a crucial role in getting tm ideas adopted into dutch energy policy, their role in framing the energy transition policy challenge was rather limited in the uk case study. this analysis has raised some doubts about the role researchers can play in a potential policy transfer of transition management ideas in the uk. the systems requirements for an energy transition hints at what kinds of outcomes we need from the necessary governance frameworks: avoiding new investment in high-carbon production, maintaining a high cost of energy and a stable co2 price, strict building codes and product and process effi ciency requirements, coordination of grid infrastructure and power systems operation, promotion of smart grids and access rules at the local scale, investment support to major-scale technologies such as grids, ccs and district heating, and support to small scale technologies such as heat pumps. in the next section, we will discuss to what extent eu policy agendas are on track towards such frameworks. thus, much of eu innovation governance has traditionally relied on voluntary mechanisms, innovation being conceptually diffi cult to regulate. at the same time, eu policymakers have woken up to the fact that hard regulations and bans can be tremendously eff ective as drivers of innovation in industry. examples of relevance here are the co2 emissions regulation on cars or the banning of the incandescent light bulb. as we have seen, for all the areas of energy systems change, relatively ambitious policies, regulations and directives have already been put in motion either at the eu or the member state level. however, several contradictions remain in the policy frameworks, while their implementation lags behind. the ability to enact change in practice is connected to governance of institutional and political regime conditions. indeed, the institutional and political determinants of policy are as much a constraining factor on the transition as it is an outcome of it. the question is: what kinds of governance will be compatible with and able to drive forward transitions-oriented policy? here i can only provide some hints about where one might look for answers, discussing ongoing governance trends and issues, their relevance and implications in view of the envisioned low carbon energy transition. this implies further development of transition governance and management as a meta-governance perspective, in both an analytical and a more prescriptive sense. in an analytical sense, this book has raised a number of challenges regarding transition governance. as such it calls for a better understanding of the role of agency of regime actors, of the role of civil society organizations and citizens, of the co-evolution between niche and regime actors, of processes of institutional and cognitive change, and of the interaction and feedback between diff erent types of advocacy coalitions pushing diff erent transition scenarios. in a more prescriptive sense, the contributions of this book seem to point to the necessity to further develop thinking in terms of governance and management strategies geared to dealing with a changing dynamic in transitions. as pressures on existing regimes increase and niches mature, the focus of energy transition governance automatically shifts from orientation on building up networks, innovations and alternative visions and scenarios towards dealing with issues of power, resistance, institutional change and so on. the one adopted will ultimately be a matter of political decisionmaking. the main diff erence with transitions in the past is that there is an increasingly politicized debate on future sustainability of energy systems in which a very dominant regime not only has a natural inclination for incremental change, but also the power to actually control the pace and direction of change. however, analyses from a transition perspective and studies related to impacts on the climate, resource availability and so on suggest a much larger urgency to develop feasible alternatives more rapidly. this implies a normative orientation for transition management and a focus on accelerating and guiding sustainability transitions that counter, override or co-evolve with incremental optimizations. the central question is how to create the conditions to make more room for emerging sustainable pathways and accelerate the speed of change within energy regimes. transition management needs to address at least three crucial challenges as we move to a next phase in energy transitions: change in infrastructures, in institutions and in policy instruments. on increasingly lower levels of scale, these global issues manifest themselves in diff erent ways, ranging for example from regions without access to energy resources to regions in which the impacts of harvesting fossil resources have grave social or ecological impacts. in this respect, also consider the diff erent ways in which the eff ects of a changing climate impact the local scale through droughts, water problems or changing ecosystems. there is also a need, then, for institutions at lower levels of scale that are able to mediate between global issues and local impacts, as well as between global solutions and local implementation. in addition, there is a need for intermediating institutions that are able to connect diff erent levels of scale in terms of overall direction, exchange of knowledge and scaling-up of successful innovations. the preceding arguments made in this concluding chapter imply a need fundamentally to revisit some of the basic starting-points of and assumptions behind transition management. while over the last decade the basic principles listed in chapter 1, this volume, provided a solid foundation for governance experiments, they might not be fully adequate for all phases of transitions. as researchers increasingly become aware of the chaotic system behavior, the non-linearity and structural uncertainties involved in systemic change, more is needed than room for frontrunners and experiments. clearly, the most important part of the class was the small group design work aimed at developing a prototype of an online course. the design task went beyond creating a website for the course and required the faculty members and students to work together to develop the syllabus, the course structure, the readings, student assignments, and assessment rubrics. they had to determine the nature of student interaction, how the course content would be offered and delivered, how technology would be used to accomplish course goals, and how the course website would be designed to make it both user-friendly and fit with course content and pedagogy. coming close on the heels of the events in the drc was a summit of the great lakes region that brought together 11 heads of state and government in nairobi in middecember 2006 to sign a landmark regional pact on peace, security and development. this pact aims to disarm rebel groups, commits regional leaders to a non-aggression and mutual defence protocol, and prescribes a long list of governance, humanitarian and economic programmes. another notable outcome of the conference was the commitment by governments to embrace the responsibility of protecting their populations from genocide, war crimes, ethnic cleansing, crimes against humanity and gross violations of human rights committed by or within a state. one of the foremost challenges to the achievement of justice and reconciliation through the gacaca trials is the prevalence of intimidation of genocide survivors and witnesses. in an attempt to obliterate evidence, some witnesses have had their houses burnt down, some have been attacked, and others killed. for instance, the alarming murders in gikongoro in december 2003, after which the senate set up an ad hoc commission to investigate, were carried out before the gacaca trials began. sources in gikongoro indicated that the methods of killing were the same as those employed during the genocide and it was feared that this heinous crime would be a potential threat to the gacaca courts, which were due to start in the following year. since the gacaca trials began in march 2005, there have been sporadic murders of witnesses and survivors, and it seems that as the momentum of the gacaca process increases, the incidence of these killings is escalating. understandably, these dilemmas hamper the achievement of justice and the resultant intimidation and the killing of survivors and witnesses is a desperate attempt to bury the evidence against the perpetrators. if this trend continues unabated, the quest for justice is likely to be replaced by fear of reprisal and a struggle for sheer survival, the two elements that would ultimately impede the gacaca process, which apparently, in spite of its enormous challenges, is the only hope for rwanda to address the spiral of violence that has left this society smarting in the pain of utter self-destruction. in eritrea, heroines and women icons soon lost their newly gained independence after the war. in rwanda, though isolated cases of backlash still exist, the difference is that the government acknowledged the ingenious ways in which women bore the brunt of the genocide with resilience and endurance, and yet stood up with boldness and determination to rebuild their families, their communities and their country. thus the government put in place mechanisms to defend the spaces created for women during the struggle. there are a lot of options when it comes to cloud data warehouses and everyone has specific use cases. however, our team is finding more and more users are either selecting or switching over to snowflake for its many useful features and overall ease of use. here are just some of the reasons why we are finding people enjoy using snowflakedb. thinking about outsourcing your next big software project? if yes, we are here to help you! outsourcing brings great benefits to your business, but there are some challenges and issues when it comes to managing outsourcing partnerships. this article addresses them to help you evaluate whether software development outsourcing is right for your company. companies hand over their core business operations to a specialized third party vendor to streamline them, increase profitability, strengthen market positions, and improve customer experience. they prefer entrusting a service to a third party to save time and budget costs and dedicate more resources to strategic business functions. with programming outsourcing, you can find a team with the right tech skills and experience, explain what problem you need to solve with the software solution you want to build, and just monitor the development process from time to time. as a result, you will have a product on your hands faster and avoid time spent on creating and managing a new in-house team. offshore outsourcing is the most common type of it outsourcing. most of the companies who opt for it prefer to delegate software development to companies outside their countries to save cost and time. a landing page is a standalone page that visitors land on after clicking on an online marketing call-to-action. each landing is designed for a specific marketing campaign. the purpose of a successful landing page is to grow your audience and convert visitors to customers, perhaps encouraging them to download the app, or purchase your product. even if download rates show some interest in your app, the chances of people discovering it organically are close to zero. so to get your first thousand users you need to prepare for the launch and follow it through with an effective campaign. the big launch of your full app website should coincide with the reveal of your app. once your app goes live you should provide all the relevant details, including support and documentation, pricing, press kit, and a link to download in the app stores. you'll continue to add more information to your site until it eventually includes reviews, user testimonies, more in-depth previews, and links to articles about your app. but be very specific in your messaging. think about the diversification of traffic sources: referral, social, direct, search, email, and of course paid traffic. usually this feature is integrated in the most popular services for building landing pages. the next stage of your app landing page is about increasing interest by revealing more about your app and actively reaching out to potential users for app feedback. you can begin to introduce more details about your app's features, a few screenshots, and additional materials as your app takes form. first of all, try those social media channels where you think your target audience hangs out. next measure the effect you get from each channel and try to create more engaging content, but only for those that are showing better efficiency. with the current rise of blockchain technology, governments around the world have already issued the first blockchain-related laws. should companies approach blockchain with suspicion? does blockchain government regulation concern solely cryptocurrencies, or the entire range of blockchain solutions? join intellectsoft as we look at the first wave of blockchain laws. bitcoin has remained in the shadow for several years since its release in 2009, which is a long time for our fast-paced world that quickly embraces new technology. whereas the global community is seeking consensus on cryptocurrency regulation, the national governments are making their own maneuvers, and it is important to understand the intentions behind them. for instance, small countries like gibraltar, bermuda, and lichtenstein are all seeking to attract new capital and become crypto-friendly as a result. the republic of marshall islands and venezuela even issue their own tokens to oppose external financial influence. meanwhile, saudi arabia is working on establishing legal norms for blockchain technology implementation without prohibiting cryptocurrencies. the country cooperated with the uae on a pilot project to explore cross-border digital currency payments on blockchain. in october 2017, the saudi arabian islamic development bank ordered its researchers to develop blockchain-based products. france warns its citizens of risks associated with the new class of digital assets and prepares a law on icos and cryptocurrencies. south korea is against anonymous transactions and currently develops a tax law, whereas japan and germany acknowledged bitcoin as an eligible currency and have taxed it, too. finally, india prohibits cryptocurrency payments, considering them illegal. brazil prohibits investing in bitcoin as well. as mentioned earlier, the regulations are mostly limited to cryptocurrencies and icos. while blockchain is still in its infancy, governments around the world recognize the value of distributed ledger technology. similarly, the united states, the uk, singapore and japan do not intend to scare away the blockchain industry professionals, admitting the need for proper blockchain regulation. blockchain technology implementation and regulation poses minimal to no danger to businesses wanting to embrace the technology, while we still have to see what the future holds for the global adoption of cryptocurrencies and icos. furthermore, western governments encourage blockchain implementation in public services and welcome the usage of technology in the corporate sector. for the success of a business, what matters the most is how efficient its team members are. in a time when the demand for various software solutions is on the rise, it is essential for every company to have a productive software development team. the more skilled your team is, the better and quicker it executes projects. nonetheless, you cannot just randomly set up a productive team. the most successful software development teams are well-organized. they have members who know and understand their respective duties. they are in sync with each other and work together towards achieving the set goals. of course, building such a team requires you to carefully consider team members, distribute duties, and ensure effective collaboration. the first step to building a team is choosing a team structure. here are the three most common team structure types. your choice will depend on the nature of your projects. a generalist team includes people with a vast knowledge base and a wide-ranging skillset. members of such teams use various resources and leverage their skills to tackle a wide variety of tasks. they also have good communication skills and are usually keen on lifelong learning. when it comes to software projects, companies usually hire full-stack developers to build a generalist team. a hybrid software team is comprised of both generalists and specialists. such teams usually thrive in managing a wide array of projects that address different areas or issues at once. hybrid teams not only fix specific problems in a project efficiently but also address other areas when needed. a product owner represents the actual buyer of the product that is being developed. hence, this job role also becomes a part of the development team, as product owners decide on the product requirements and ensure the team follows the established vision for the project. this job requires a proficient individual who oversees the technical side of a software solution that is being developed and helps the team tackle technical issues that arise in the software development lifecycle. software engineers, for example front-end and back-end developers, are responsible for the technical execution of the project. they bring the deliverables to life according to the set requirements and communicate the details to their team lead and project manager. ux and ui designers are responsible for bringing the software to life by researching the demands of the target audience, interviewing the users about their requirements, and gathering other data. they then work together to design an interface and user experience that will be engaging for users. change managers decide on whether to accept or reject the changes that are proposed for a software product. change managers may also be responsible for budget, timelines, and some project requirements. typically, there are several change managers involved in the project. the test engineer is responsible for creating and running test scripts to detect bugs and ensuring that the set deliverables match the requirements. a software development team may also include subject matter experts who lend their expertise to specific areas of development when required. first and foremost, any software should deliver on its promise, that is help users solve a specific task quickly and easily. as many apps are used daily, a software development team should also make their product visually appealing to users. every feature should fulfill its purpose and work properly in a software product. there should be no redundant elements in the functionality. to ensure this, every development team should carry out a comprehensive user survey before starting with design. performing comprehensive testing is also very important to ensure a successful release and continuous operation after it. considering that cyber attacks, hacks, identity theft, data leaks, and other digital security threats are the new normal in our digital lives, security should be a topmost concern for each and every software product. it means that the product should have no bugs and other vulnerable spots that can make the software product susceptible to malevolent activities. as a result, the security measures should be considered on the stage of designing the architecture and ensured by rigorous testing. a development team should also ensure timely delivery of the final product to users. it means all team members should work efficiently from start to finish. any software development team should aim at creating as much reusable code as possible to simplify future updates, big or small. plus, reusing code means lower development costs. the success of a software development team depends on its members. therefore, you need to consider numerous factors when building a team for your project. another major factor impacting the recruitment process for software development projects is the team size, which, in turn, depends on the project. in most cases, small teams prove to be more productive as compared to larger ones. these teams have better communication and cooperation in general. a team of ten can be highly effective. larger projects require highly skilled and experienced project and delivery managers to carry a project to a successful end result. hiring a software development organization like intellectsoft to complete your projects has a wide array of benefits. you get a quickly assembled team, niche expertise, clear development process, ability to scale the team up and down quickly. most importantly, you can significantly cut costs and build a big product within a short time frame. bringing business logic and important operations to life at once, the backend is undoubtedly the most vital part of our applications. so, choosing a tool that would make the backend highly effective and scalable is critical. luckily, there is a wide array of advanced programming languages to choose from for the task. still, the list is long and the languages differ in many aspects, making the process of choosing the right one for your particular case quite daunting. not strongly recommended for web development, go works best for cloud-based interfaces, networking applications, real-time application development, and microservices. there are different factors that influence the performance of a programming language. one should carefully pick a programming language with which a program can be developed efficiently. here are the factors you should consider while choosing go vs node. though go was introduced in 2009, it can be considered a mature and robust tool. at the same time, node js shows the same level of maturity and has the support of a broader audience. error handling in go demands you to implement explicit error checking. the compile-time and run-time errors are handled differently which raises problems for the developers. however, the creators of golang have started working on additional error handling functionality that can help shorten development time. on the other hand, node js implements the traditional throw-catch error handling mechanism which is quite popular among programmers. with this conventional approach, the errors are displayed and corrected immediately before performing any further operation. when comparing the error handling mechanism of golang vs node, a lot of web developers find node js better as they are quite familiar with the throw-catch approach. when it comes to nodejs, it has a wide array of tools, frameworks, and libraries available for developers to build all sorts of applications. moreover, js has a huge community that provides extended support for all kinds of development tasks. as go is a new language, finding go developers can be difficult. however, the language is among the most promising and has a bright future ahead of it. also called one of the most popular programming languages of today, go secures top positions worldwide as it enables top-of-the-line productivity and use of multi-core power, while node stands out among other backend development technologies as it comes with a complete environment equipped with all necessary development tools. business development is never easy, all the more so in the current reality. companies need to map out strategies and make substantial investments in times where consumer demand changes at a breakneck pace. more so, many business development efforts today are closely connected to implementing digital technologies as part of the process called digital transformation. the concept of software and technology workshop was created to help companies face these challenges and evolve in a meaningful way without overspending. these are not software engineering or programming workshops, where enthusiastic developers gather to experiment with development tools, technologies, and frameworks in a casual setting off work. in a software and technology workshop, you cooperate with a scaled down version of a software development team to crystalize your idea, see if it works, and if it would, make the first solid steps towards bringing it to life. the team conducts interviews with stakeholders, performs comprehensive domain research and competitor analysis as well as risk assessment. as technology and software workshops are aimed at clarifying whether your idea would work properly or at all in your enterprise, this is the stage where you will find the answer. the team maps out the high-level system architecture and identifies the best technology stack and required third-party integrations for your solution. workshops are an effective way of ensuring the success of your digital transformation efforts. this mode of cooperation helps you shape up your idea, see how it will work by way of prototyping, and if it does, ensure a smooth transition to its development and deployment. in no way connected to programming workshops, software and tech workshops give companies a clear picture of how a certain technology or digital transformation effort can improve an operation or become a backbone of an entire business or product. most important, software and tech workshops are built on the idea of getting palpable, real-life results instead of doing the guesswork. hbase is a unique database that can work on many physical servers at once, ensuring operation even if not all servers are up and running. the system architecture of hbase is quite complex compared to classic relational databases. to coordinate actions between services, hbase uses apache zookeeper, a special service for managing configurations and synchronization of services. as the amount of data in a region increases and it reaches a certain size, hbase starts the split, an operation that divides the region by two. to avoid permanent divisions of the regions, you can pre-set the boundaries of the regions and increase their maximum size. hbase allows you to do mapreduce tasks that are naturally slower than hadoop tasks, because these systems were designed for different purposes. hbase is an online system, hadoop is aimed at offline operation. notably, different sets of keys are in different columnfamily files, and if you use several machines to quickly extract the value, it is advisable to refer to one columnfamily. blocks are used for different things in hdfs and hbase. hdfs blocks are disk storage units. blocks in hbase are for memory storage. there are many hbase blocks that fit into one hbase file. hbase is designed to maximize the performance of the hdfs file system, and they fully utilize the block size. some experts even set up their hdfs to have a block size of 20 gb to make hbase more efficient. apache cassandra works with key space, which corresponds to the concept of a database schema in the relational model. there can be several column families in this key space, which corresponds to the concept of a relational table. in turn, the column families contain columns that are combined with a key in the rowkey record. the columns within the record are set in a particular order. unlike a relational database, there are no restrictions on whether records contain columns with the same names as in other records. column families of the system can have several types. cassandra apache is a reliable data archive that scales fairly quickly. the development community constantly updates cassandra to make it easier, faster, and more time-efficient for software engineers. the editors of one of the it portals conducted an experiment that showed how apache cassandra compares to mongodb, a cross-platform document-oriented database program. both file storage systems have leading positions in the market of it products. the type of operation of the two platforms on the servers is very similar. it is worth noting that hbase separates data logging and hash into two stages, while cassandra does it simultaneously. hbase also has a rather complex architecture compared to its competitor. when a client is searching for the right server, they request the presence of a meta table that contains all the cluster files. it is necessary to request information about the owner of the data within the table. if file location changes, the program must re-complete the full cycle of work. here, cassandra has a more fitting structure, which largely affects the speed of the system. when it comes to apache cassandra vs hbase benchmarks, both use linear scaling, so they have approximately the same benchmark. despite that, they show completely different test results. hbase showed the best results in the use of loads when reading data. it copes well with high loads when working with files and scanning large tables. on the other hand, cassandra did a consistently good job with a large load for writing. thus, it is more suitable for collecting analytics or data from sensors when time consistency is acceptable. trying to determine which of the two databases is best for you really depends on the project in question. each has its advantages and sometimes the choice would merely depend on personal preferences in carrying our software development. creating and launching an app is quite an exciting experience. nonetheless, with the growing number of mobile apps flooding the markets on a daily basis, you must make sure that your product succeeds in gaining traction. if you are perplexed by choosing the niche for your future app, here we list some interesting mobile app ideas. you can either develop a unique app for any of these markets, or you may come up with an application for a specific niche. the travel industry is one of the most innovative and fastest-growing markets in the world. despite being around for years, this app niche has tremendous potential when it comes to adapting new tech. in other words, this sector gives you the freedom to come up with innovative app ideas. leveraging the concept of overlaying digital objects on real-life places, you can certainly come up with exciting app ideas. while one may see numerous education and teaching apps in the market, finding apps that address specific educational needs of college students is rather difficult. therefore, pondering a bit over the dynamic lifestyle of these students will enable you to come up with the best mobile app ideas for them. for instance, you can create a time-management app specifically aimed at helping college students, which can include a feature that allows for attaching homework to class reminders. or, you can launch an app offering financial assistance and advice to students. likewise, your app can help college students in finding part-time jobs by connecting them with potential employers. technology has greatly helped medical science in the diagnosis and treatment of different diseases. however, despite such developments, this area still lags behind when it comes to adopting impactful mobile apps. the status quo gives you the freedom to choose anything from the plethora of interesting app ideas for this app niche. today, people take fitness and sports very seriously, pushing their own physical limits daily. this is one of the key reasons why app stores look flooded with various fitness apps. while the niche is highly competitive, you can still find room to apply your creativity here. music is one of those niches that continues to harbor top app ideas. the incessant love of music, the diversity of genres, the thousands and thousands of performers drive the application in this market. the success of apps like soundcloud, saavn, shazam, spotify, and youtube prove how different and unique music-related apps can be. sports enthusiasts are always on the hunt for sources that keep them updated about the latest events. hence, you can consider this niche to launch your own app by experimenting with some common app ideas for sports. virtual reality has proven to be very useful for educational purposes. yet, the true potential of this technology is not fully explored yet. from ecommerce apps to dedicated fashion guides, numerous retail applications are available in app stores. nonetheless, the market is far from peaking, and there are niches to fill. similarly, you can also develop a fashion app that allows users to keep track of their wardrobe. this will save them from buying clothes similar to what they already have. apart from applications focused on college activities, a college app can also benefit students by informing them about the beginning of the admission process in various colleges in a specific locale. also, you can develop an application where alumni and new students can communicate regarding their studies, best coffee shops to go, discuss college policies, and so on. colleges can also use such platforms for gathering their alumni in one place, as well as collect and record different data on all current students. apart from creating sports applications, you can also create apps that aim at multiple sports at the same time or niche-specific apps. although there exist numerous applications on android and ios that aim to provide education about different subjects, the market is not saturated. it is entirely likely that your particular application turns out to be more useful for the students than the existing ones. so, why not enter into this market? while there are many fitness-tracking applications for both android and ios users, there are not that many solid full-fledged healthcare apps. so, if you are planning a mobile app venture, perhaps you may opt for healthcare as your niche. when it comes to social media apps, you can either consider simple networking apps such as those resembling facebook, linkedin, or twitter. or, you can consider experimenting with other social aspects, like dating, charity events, neighborhood networking. you can also come up with different witty and fun app ideas that gamify social networking or make the process of getting to know each other in a setting simple and exciting. a mobile app can turn out to be a full-time profitable business for you if you approach it dutifully. while many applications generate revenue from gaining new users, the ones aimed at resolving a particular need may also serve as a small business for you. here are some cool and funny app ideas. if you love adventures, you will surely like these ideas. if you have decided to develop an app of your own, you can come up with a worthy idea by following these simple tips. the mobile app industry continues growing at a fast pace and the market has become really competitive. yet, it is never too late to leverage your creativity and launch your own app. if you desire to establish yourself as a mobile app developer or an entrepreneur, the time is right. all you need is to proceed carefully with the development of your app. considering the competition, your app must bear everything to surpass the existing apps. we have conducted numerous meetings with enterprise clients to deliver blockchain projects. airspace has validated itself as one of the most critical fields for optimization and security enhancement, and we have modeled one of these cases. now, we share the details with you. in the past, intellectsoft blockchain lab has reviewed blockchain technology trends. generally, they fit within the three waves of digitalization when the first to disrupt the industry are startups and smes. during the second wave, the enterprise starts to catch up while carefully observing the market and studying ways to upgrade its business verticals. finally, iconic corporations from a traditional and overregulated space with gargantuan infrastructure and decades of history begin to accept the new reality. during a regular sow meeting with a team of the client company, we presented a proof-of-concept for the new generation tracking and procurement system. we responded to the challenge by offering an elegant solution: a blockchain-based marketplace for selected manufacturers and trusted airline partners. to achieve this ambitious task, we referred to hyperledger family of frameworks, in particular, hyperledger fabric in combination with modular platform architecture. it is the most mature enterprise-grade blockchain framework with consortium capabilities. hyperledger fabric is an open-source private network with custom logic, simple permission levels, sophisticated queries and mixed data formats. with its medium speed, dynamic block time and block size, absence of transaction fees and native support by infrastructure providers, we chose it as a great fit for the aircraft management and procurement platform. the system needs to include various vital components to guarantee access and accounts control, transaction validation, asset management, private data management, transaction execution. specifically, a secured api layer with ddos protection guards the main point of contact with its database and information exchange. security and accounts services ensure the validity of digital id and flexibility of settings to oversee account permissions, limitations and overall access. the irrevocable element of our procurement system is seamless interaction with legacy banking networks such as sepa, swift, visa, or paypal. notably, the system can be as fast as its slowest chainlink. therefore, we added a range of options not only for a quick search but also for payment and delivery. on the other hand, the us dollar is currently considered a global reserve currency, especially within aviation. however, the world is changing so quickly that we might witness an emergence of an alternative. as an advantage, our system can introduce ether or bitcoin when necessary. intellectsoft has been witnessing how the three waves of digitalization penetrated global industries: first startups, then enterprises and traditional companies. aviation is among the most regulated sectors; simultaneously, it is the one that calls for radical optimization. we introduced one of the solutions that can save airlines millions of dollars while remaining excellent customer service. it simplifies a complex process of searching, querying, paying and shipping mro parts in the overly formalized market and promises to achieve a competitive edge to those companies that implement blockchain in their business verticals. therefore, with this article, we explain what chatbots are and how to build a chatbot that genuinely boosts your business. a chatbot is a dedicated software developed to communicate with humans in a natural way. most chatbots integrate with different messaging applications to develop a link with the end-users. though, some chatbots also function as standalone apps. based on how the chatbots process the input and how they respond, chatbots can be divided into two main types. some chatbots work by processing incoming queries from the users as commands. these chatbots rely on a specified set of commands or rules instructed during development. the bot then responds to the users by analyzing the incoming query against the preset rules and fetching appropriate information. while these bots are quick and efficient, they cannot decipher queries in natural language. therefore, they are unable to indulge in complex conversations with humans. nlp-based chatbots also work on keywords that they fetch from the predefined libraries. the quality of this communication thus depends on how well the libraries are constructed, and the software running the chatbot. precisely, most chatbots work on three different classification approaches which further build up their basic architecture. nonetheless, to fetch responses in the cases where queries are outside of the related patterns, algorithms assist the program by reducing the classifiers and creating a manageable structure. entity: an entity is the core idea of a chatbot that a firm decides. for instance, a chatbot for an online store may have payment systems or order tracking systems as entities. dependency parsing: the program scrutinizes the text for nouns, verbs, subjects, objects, and phrases to find any dependent information conveyed by the user. after deciding the intent, the chatbot interacts with the knowledge base to fetch information for the response. the knowledge base serves as the main response center bearing all the information about the products, services, or the company. it has answers to all the faqs, guides, and every possible information that a customer may be interested to know. another critical component of a chatbot architecture is database storage built on the platform during development. it holds all the chat logs and analytics. regardless of how simple or complex a chatbot architecture is, the usual workflow and structure of the program remain almost the same. it only gets more complicated after including additional components for a more natural communication. below is the basic chatbot architecture diagram that depicts how the program processes a request. whereas, the following flowchart shows how the nlu engine behind a chatbot analyzes a query and fetches an appropriate response. chatbots are flexible enough to integrate with various types of texting platforms. depending upon your business needs, the ease of customers to reach you, and the provision of relevant api by your desired chatbot, you can choose a suitable communication channel. for instance, you can build a chatbot for your company website or mobile app. likewise, you can also integrate your chatbot with facebook messenger, skype, any other messaging application, or even with sms channels. considering your business requirements and the workload of customer support agents, you can design the conversation of the chatbot. a simple chatbot is just enough to provide immediate assistance to the customers. these bots usually follow faq-styled messages. therefore, you need to develop a conversational style covering all possible questions your customers may ask. the final step of chatbot development is to implement the entire dialogue flow by creating classifiers. this will map a structure to let the chatbot program decipher an incoming query, analyze the context, fetch a response and generate a suitable reply according to the conversational architecture. regardless of the development solution, the overall dialogue flow is responsible for a smooth chat with a user. before investing in a development platform, make sure to evaluate its usefulness for your business considering the following points. the total time for successful chatbot development and deployment varies according to the procedure. for instance, the online solutions offering ready-made chatbots let you deploy a chatbot in less than an hour. with these services, you just have to choose the bot that is closest to your business niche, set up its conversation, and you are good to go. likewise, building a chatbot via self-service platforms such as chatfuel takes a little long. since these platforms allow you to customize your chatbot, it may take anywhere from a few hours to a few days to deploy your bot, depending upon the architectural complexity. integration with chat platform: based on the complexity, integrating the chatbot with a single chat platform may take 40-56 hours. developing conversational ui: designing command language ui takes about 40-56 hours. whereas, creating a chatbot with natural language ui may take around 120-160 hours. adapting business logic: integrating business logic, in case you already have api for your websites or mobile applications, takes about 120-160 hours. whereas, if you build the business logic from scratch, the time may extend up to 192 hours. on the other hand, building a chatbot by hiring a software development company also takes longer. precisely, it may take around 4-6 weeks for the successful building and deployment of a customized chatbot. chatbots initially emerged as a luxury for organizations. yet, they have now become a necessity for a thriving business. these bots help the firms in keeping their customers satisfied with continuous support. moreover, they facilitate the staff by providing assistance in managing different tasks, thereby increasing their productivity. chatbots are equally beneficial for all large-scale, mid-level, and startup companies. all it takes for the firms to succeed with more sales, increased revenue, and growing customer base, is to build a chatbot that meets their requirements, is easy to maintain, and expandable according to their business needs. the more the firms invest in chatbots, the greater are the chances of their growth and popularity among the customers. conscious goal setting means that you take an analytical look at the past and the future and think about what success means to you, what you have learned and what elements you want to improve upon. the second step in conscious goal setting is to set your goals for the new year in writing and with intent. do this in your journal, get together with a group of like-minded women and create physical vision boards or you may like to create a digital vision board where you actively choose the items and concepts you want to bring into your life. tools like canva or pinterest can help to combine images and words that inspire you. limiting beliefs are false beliefs often inherited from family or society that limit us from pursuing our goals and reaching our full potential. you may have concluded in your conscious mind that you will never earn a lot of money or are not worthy of a promotion. when you set your conscious goals these beliefs are present and act like a hand brake. this is why conscious goal setting has its limits and why we recommend strongly that you create a physical vision board from paper instead of a digital one. digital vision board can also become a shopping list of things your conscious mind can bring forth right now. you will analyse what you think you want and then go and find the image or word to represent that thought. intuitive visioning practise and creating a physical vision board by-passes your limiting beliefs and offers greater guidance from the subconscious, your intuition. it allows the universe to get involved in your plans. you see, we are all part of the universe and thus carry its wisdom. most of us spend all our waking hours doing our best to silence its messages and let our brain dominate our lives. this is your chance to let go of some of that control that is perhaps keeping you away from your true desires. physical vision boards are also more tactile and therefore more real. you can hang it in front of your desk, or in your bedroom door and make sure you see it every day and let it guide you. take one magazine at a time and leaf through the pages. rip out any images or words that you are attracted to and set them aside. go through all your magazines and when you have a nice pile of images and cut outs you can start compiling them onto the board. use scissors to cut the images you want and stick them onto your board. nowadays, there is a plethora of copywriting articles online that might be helpful for people who begin their careers in this industry. moreover, such materials are useful for professionals in the given sphere because there is a tremendous amount of new information and trends that dictate innovative standards for each occupation in the world. to begin with, it would be proper to mention that there are many different specializations among copywriters. some people describe their experience or news in the sphere of technical innovations. other employees work on educative texts, whereas another group of individuals might write about cosmetics, and so on. nevertheless, certain literature can be useful for any copywriter as long as it gives general knowledge about how the work should be managed, what statements have to be avoided, and so on. if the employee strives to be involved in business copywriting, it is appropriate to learn how to conduct marketing plans, csi reports, and other common documents. there are many great sources on the internet that demonstrate high-quality copywriting works. there is also a profession of travel copywriter. usually, such people rove the globe themselves and post their own blog articles to earn money and live off it in their journeys. nevertheless, another category of professionals is employed by airline organizations or travel agencies. these workers prefer to read a wide range of professional and classical materials to improve their levels of competence. it would be proper to mention that it is much harder to become a creative worker than just a professional content writer. another essential factor to consider when applying for a job is copywriting experience. it appears that many people are attracted to this sphere because of decent incomes and good working conditions. however, they also have to follow and meet certain requirements established by modern companies to help them gain profits. it is obvious that all the applicants have to be familiarized with particular copywriting basics. additionally, they must train their skills every week with the help of copywriting exercises. although there are many copywriting services available both online and offline today, not all of them provide their customers with high-quality jobs. it is necessary for people to understand where all of their instructions and wishes can be met without any limitations. to create spectacular and effective advertisements that readers will like and refer to when choosing various products, it would be proper to learn some materials regarding the given topic. it is almost impossible to become an advertising copywriter without sufficient knowledge in the sphere of marketing. nevertheless, it is possible to write a decent content without having specific knowledge in the discussed industry. there is a wonderful article posted on one of the specialized websites that might help copywriters to understand the basic ideas of how to develop credible and high-quality marketing material. it is not a secret for everyone that an ecommerce copywriter makes people buy different products online. it would be proper to mention that the method of online trading has been proliferating within the last decade. as people read descriptions of their preferable products or various guides on how to get the best deals, they pay attention to the presented information carefully. it appears that some writers give false explanations of certain electronic gadgets or other technical machines they describe. in conclusion, it would be proper to state that copywriting is hard work and people who are involved in it on a regular basis must develop and train their professional skills constantly. many individuals should learn copywriting techniques before they get their jobs to save a tremendous amount of time on gaining additional knowledge. it appears that clients trust narrow specialists more than writers of general subjects because they know all the professional terms and other important features. unfortunately, every second document posted on the internet has a webcopy. hence, copywriters must avoid plagiarism when writing articles on identical topics. the professionalism in copywriting does not imply the development of new literature. instead, the workers must learn how to gather credible information, take the most significant parts of it and reorganize the found thoughts into an original document that will present particular benefits for its readers. in general, copywriting is an easy job for people who already have specific knowledge or experience in a certain field. they must discuss only the topics they are familiar with or involved in. a decent copywriter must also have a sophisticated language intended to interest his or her readers. according to recent research, every second american is disorganized, and every fifth task is delayed. are you one of these people? or would you like to know how to handle a missed deadline and become more organized? remember several simple rules that will help you to define time limits and enforce deadlines, thus becoming an efficient performer whether you are a freelancer or a part of a big team. once you admit that failing to meet the deadline is your fault, you will be able to identify the related mistakes and avoid them in future. if you realize that any of the above-mentioned mistakes were committed, work on avoiding them in future. learning how to deal with missed deadlines begins with the very first action on the assigned task. it requires a thorough action plan that will become the foundation of work on all tasks and projects. do not ignore the importance of altering your plan when necessary. it is a key point in learning how to handle a missed deadline. for example, there is no point in automated reminders in case of rush projects. on the other hand, setting smart goals is always a perfect option for meeting deadlines. now, as you know how to handle a missed deadline, take your time to develop a plan that will perfectly work for your environment and specificities of assigned tasks. finally, remember that the abovementioned pieces of advice are not universal keys to success. instead, change and adapt them to design a unique formula that will help you become productive. when we talk about mental health in the workplace, we find a lot of managers unsure how to navigate talking to their staff about mental health as well as not feeling sure or confident about what to say or do. instead, we chose to give our two clients one-to-one time with me. this enabled me to respond to the specific needs of the individuals and tailor the sessions to them. these sessions became a hybrid of coaching and sharing tools and techniques relevant to the development they are seeking. the two clients even opted for different timeframes, one choosing one 2-hour session and the other two 1-hour sessions, a month apart. while the two clients had booked on the same workshop for their development, credibility in the workplace, interestingly their requirements were very different. in each one-to-one session, after coaching them to discover the core of the challenge they were facing, i was able to share a different model which they then were able to apply to their context. for one person it was much more about being able to ask for what they really wanted and confronting their inner people-pleaser, while for the other one it was much more about how to create a psychologically safe dialogue. so, while we hope our clients know we are always flexible in our approach and open to new ways of working, we thought we would add this to our menu of learning options to encourage people to consider this as they start the new year. there was a wonderful tone of celebration in his message, and this is why i think the work around learning about our identity, culture and how that influences how we show up is such important work. letting go of these assumptions and motives enables deeper connection and strong relationships. it also is foundational for effective conversations. shortly after i met this colleague, i attended a session on communicating across cultures and learned about how in her culture people often communicated with emotional expressiveness and were quite direct. it was considered rude or cold to be emotionally restrained. this was eye opening in many ways and as i explored my communication preferences and culture, i learned strategies to communicate effectively with her and others without the weight of judgement on my shoulder. if you are interested in learning more about ways of effectively communicating across differences, happy offers an ideal workshop, communicating across differences: equality, diversity and inclusion in the workplace. this workshop is geared towards navigating some of these issues and provides tips for how to facilitate better communication. covid has shown us how important it is for organizations to become resilient. there is one guaranteed way to increase your resilience, and that is by orienting yourself to the burning challenges that society and the world face today. pioneering organizations do this by matching their core competencies with these challenges in order to develop new business models and revenue streams for their business. this requires you to create value, no longer just for your shareholder, or even stakeholders, but to think beyond the existing markets and clients to think broader. the question becomes: how can you as an organization with all the competencies, resources, and capacities you have contribute to solving societal and environmental challenges that are out there? i began to question my assumptions about my role in relationships and to take a deeper look at what i had given up and how i had shortchanged others by following this script. i recalled the resentment that i often experienced as i sublimated my own needs to avoid conflict or to preserve the status quo in my relationships. and interestingly, these relationships often disintegrated over time anyway. perhaps this was because others sensed my resentment. or maybe my behavior ensured that my relationships were superficial and thus not very rewarding since i did not share my feelings and needs with the other. or possibly the relationships fell by the wayside over time because of my own fatigue and anger from always accommodating. i began to see that my behaviors could be viewed as a sign of my own self-righteousness and could be experienced as demeaning to others. i realized that i needed to change. in the spirit of continued authentic communication as initiated in my last blog, i would like to share my reflections about the competency that was in highest demand in my past two months: listening! listening to myself and to others has been complemented with my more conscious listening to what is around me in the city and in nature. a deeper listening, i am discovering, is slowing me down, grounding me and generating an instant deep connection to the core of what unites us all: the energy field that vibrates and pulsates if only we listen. the quest to develop the superpowers is not for cowards! most of us are proud of our strengths. yet katrin explains how these strengths can limit us when we take them too far. for example, i take pride in my ability to stand up for my convictions and live by my values. yet taken to the extreme, the strength of my convictions could lead me down the path of close-mindedness and rigidity. to develop superpowers, i must entertain the potential dark side of my strengths. i must be willing and able to refine how i use my strengths to avoid overdoing it to the detriment of my effectiveness. some of us who are not in formal positions of authority may be tempted to avoid the difficult path to developing superpowers. perhaps we tell ourselves that change making is limited to elected officials, ceos or others who head up organizations and institutions. i urge you to resist this line of thinking. leadership is far more than filling a position. we cannot afford to fall into a victim mentality. instead we must acknowledge that leadership does not require a title and refrain from using a lack of one as an excuse for doing nothing. leadership does demand bravery and the willingness to take risks. it necessitates our listening to and valuing diverse perspectives. leadership entails seeking solutions to wicked problems most always through collaboration with others. it obliges us to always seek balance in how we use our strengths. it requires us to continue to seek development and growth. there will always be one more lesson to learn, one more hurdle to overcome and one more challenge to confront with grace and courage. what is it that makes change makers so impactful? and what can we learn from them? how does resilience turn into a strength that when combined with other strengths becomes a true superpower? as i am adding the finishing touches on my upcoming book that answers these questions in the context of what makes co-creation successful, i would like to share an emerging bit of insight that hopefully adds value to you. a superpower for me is when a strength polarity pair is overcome and super strength, or superpower, emerges! the journey from limitations to strength and from strengths to superpowers is the development journey of the heroes of our times: the change makers. i am sure that you have used your inherent strengths in various combinations with other strengths to develop your very own personal superpowers. here i invite you to take a look at the strengths we have identified in our research in figure 2 and to ask yourself: where am i on the scale of these strengths and their respective limitations? which limitation have i noticed in myself when i overstretch a strength and how can this overview help me return to my powerful expression of the strength again? ceos and hr directors have consistently rated adaptability, authenticity and values as top leadership qualities for people at any level of an organization. these are also key ingredients for resilience. i define resilience as the capacity to respond to external pressure by adapting and recovering quickly and hence finding a new equilibrium. figuring out networking in an event that is strictly structured around privileged access to select events was another eye-opener. the weather challenge which drowned the arrival in unbelievable masses of snow and rain meant that nothing worked as planned. being simply in the moment and helping fellow attendees out, together finding registration and queuing for badges ended up being the best way to connect. the human element of together making it in a challenging moment created a connection far more important than a typical cocktail party ever would. i may even have attracted a new mba student to bsl as a result of one such incident. and these three insights that i have gained in davos link nicely back to what ceos suggest are the backbone of resilience: adaptability, authenticity and values. i hope you find this reflection insightful in your own journey as a change maker both within your organization, and as you shape your own journey across new ground and landscapes! as i write this blog, year 2017 is winding down. throughout the year my blogging partner, katrin muff, and i have commented frequently on corporate culture. the media seems to share our interest in this subject. indeed, references to corporate culture have shown up on the front pages of many reputable newspapers and magazines this past year. i did a cursory web search to gather up a few of these stories. leaders create the conditions within which a culture emerges. however, they may not fully understand the possible consequences of the systems that they put in place. likewise, they may be shielded from what occurs within the organization day to day. asking the right questions and listening openly to the answers can provide them with the needed data for making appropriate changes to improve the organizational culture. as i anticipate 2018, i wonder what catastrophes might be prevented in the new year if leaders of every company committed to taking a close look at their own organizational cultures. chances are most would find a mix of strengths to reinforce and weaknesses to address. and in some cases, they may find signs of the toxicity that, if not eradicated, could create serious consequences for their people and their companies. let us all resolve to become proactive this new year in stamping out the unhealthy parts of our cultures while fortifying the strengths. in the last round, all ceos shared which issue concerned them most in our society and where they saw opportunities to connect these to future business activities? their stories addressed the top burning societal issues of switzerland as addressed by the gapframe: co2 overuse, equal opportunity, sustainable consumption, social integration and clean energy. i invited the audience to take a moment and choose one action that they could implement in the next 3 days to close the gap of where we are today vs. where they thought we should be in an area important for them. i offered an online tool to share these actions, if anybody felt like it. i wish we had more time at the end, the final reflection was a minute shorter than i had hoped but our 30 minutes were up. nonetheless, i was happily surprised when i discovered the personal commitments coming in. figure 2 provides an overview of them grouped into some categories i hope are helpful in reviewing. how much of your life do you spend at work? for many of us the answer is shocking. working adults residing in the united states spend a third of their time at work, according to recent estimates. many of us spend more time at work than in any other endeavor including time with our families and friends. i am not going to debate whether this is the right way to live. however, since many of us will work a large proportion of our adult years, we might reflect on what work means to us. are we working only for a paycheck or for something more? through my own conversations with working people, i have found that most want to work for companies with a distinct purpose and clear values. research that i referenced in my august blog, confirmed that all generations, not just millennials, want to find purpose in their work. since we tend to identify with our work, it is not surprising that most of us want it to be meaningful. year after year we hear that a very large percentage of working adults across the world do not love their jobs and are not engaged with their companies or their work. this disengagement from our work often has a negative impact on our health and well-being. inspiration comes from external and internal factors. it comes from your environment and from within yourself. if you are in a dire circumstance, you are likely to yearn for a better life. that goal somehow propels you to be on your feet and start acting. you can learn from successful people around you as well. what are the habits that keep them disciplined and driven? what are their aims and aspirations? what are their strategies for dealing with life in general? see if you can incorporate their habits into yours. do not be intimidated or reluctant to ask for advice. trust me, it will save you for a lifetime. be intentional about your day by focusing on doing the important tasks of the day. finding inspiration in everyday life stems from completing even a single task. that single task alone can push you to move on to the next activity on your to-do list. finding inspiration in life starts with planning. you cannot just simply wake up and expect your day to be productive. you have to have a roadmap to keep you going. you get to enjoy some motivation. it helps to clear your mind and focus on your breathing. such simple things can spark some inspiration in you. i sometimes find myself in a confusing state or even in a slump. there is zero motivation to even start something. perhaps, what you need is a change of environment. re-create your room in such a way that it induces inspiration. everything always circles back to mindset. do you have the right frame of mind? no matter how oriented you are in goal-setting, without the proper mindset, you will not go far. proactivity means taking initiative at work. you know your responsibilities and you are determined to do them. finding inspiration at work goes with the knowledge that you are hardworking. the more proactive you are, the higher the likelihood that your colleagues will appreciate you. the praise that comes with it will surely fire you up to continue. do not go to the office and complain about the system or the environment itself. instead of whining about your work, focus on what you can offer. by doing that, you are attracting inspiration to yourself. you have the drive to help the company grow and so, you are going the extra mile to just do it. if you crave improvement, be more open to criticisms, especially constructive ones. constructive feedback gives us the opportunity to progress; thereby, arousing inspiration within us. you can revise and come up with your routine. you either do this early in the morning or before bedtime. how to find inspiration in life? take a moment and contemplate which is best done at the end of your day. you might find yourself exhausted by that time surely. but setting a few minutes to reflect on what has transpired during the day will help you track your progress. going to a local cafe seems to do the trick sometimes. by cooping up in your room, your tank of inspiration gets depleted. things could get dull and boring. so, change your scenery and go out. take in the beauty your local cafe has to offer. getting away for a while might help you find inspiration. so, take that much-needed vacation and sail to the beach or go camping. allowing yourself to be away from work or studies is necessary to allow creative thoughts to pour in. i say it either verbally or write it down. i like to write mine down so that way my kids can look back on it when i pass after creating the things i have created. this practice helps to reframe the mind and helps you focus on the things in the now. check out promptly journals and get your gratitude books or self-love journals. you have to know yourself before you can live the life and fulfill your destiny and purpose. self-discovery is crucial because it is in the process of getting to know you, that you discover how amazing, talented and gifted you really are. what god says about you and what you believe in your heart are the only opinions that should shape your life. keep in mind that self-discovery may take time. for some, it might happen quickly and for others, it might not. the rewarding aspect of self-discovery is that you can use what you learn to inspire you to reach your destiny and purpose in life. if you think you are a victor and not a victim, you will be victorious. if you think that you are a winner, you will win, just as if you think you are a loser, you will find yourself losing. a miserable person is a force to be reckoned with, and one that if unwatched, will attempt to bring everyone around them down as well. you can just say no to negativity that miserable people may try to add to your plate. instead, surround yourself with people who are going to motivate and inspire you and not those who constantly dump negativity. however, in order for something to represent a value, people have to trust that it is indeed valuable and that it will stay valuable long enough for them to redeem that value in the future. and so, paper money invaded society as an instrument of practicality and convenience. however as time progressed, and due to macro-economic changes, this bond between the paper receipt and the gold it stands for was broken. now, a proper explanation of the path that led us away from the gold standard could be extremely complex and might take us away from the scope of this article. but the absolute net value of all the money owned by a government stays the same! you are basically giving away all control of your money to the governments or central banks. at any point in time, the government can decide to freeze your account and deny you access to your own funds. even if you use only cold hard cash the government can cancel the legal status of your currency as was done in india a few years back. the document, which was a whitepaper, suggested a way of creating a system for a decentralized currency called bitcoin. this system claimed to create digital money that solves the double-spend problem without the need for a central authority. laszlo published a post back in 2010 asking for someone to sell him 2 pizzas in exchange for 10,000 bitcoins. well, someone did sell pizzas to him, and now the price of these two pizzas is worth well over 100 million dollars today. basically, if you wanted information you could get it from a few major players like the new york times, the washington post and other news agencies. no government or bank can decide to freeze your account or confiscate your holdings. bitcoin also cuts a lot of the middlemen from the process of transferring money. these people are unbanked or underbanked because of where they live or the reality that they have been born into. there are even bitcoin debit cards that allow you to pay at almost any store with your bitcoin balance. the revolution of money began in 2009 and these days we are seeing it change money as we know it. stay away from things that prevent you from achieving your goals. stay away from bad habits like watching movies, spending too much time on social media, sleeping too much, or spending time with the wrong people. such actions will hinder your goals. list down the goals you hope to achieve from the most important goal to the least. it is a guide for you to choose your goals. a healthy lifestyle has many benefits not only for the body but for the mind too. also, if you follow a healthy lifestyle then you can reduce the risk of having cancer, heart disease, diabetes, obesity, and osteoporosis. finally, we can say that there are various benefits of living a healthy lifestyle. also, a healthy lifestyle has many benefits to your social as well as personal life. besides, it improves the relationships in the family. most importantly, the person who lives a healthy lifestyle lives longer as compared to those who do not. how to achieve it: pick your battles wisely when it comes to what you sacrifice for your career. working extra hard to earn bonus points at work can be a great idea, but your relationships and social life should never be sacrificed as a result. as someone who's also struggled to come to grips with grief after the loss of a loved one, i found corina quinn's piece poignant, heartbreaking, and hopeful in turns. it reminded me that travel always, unfailingly, has the propensity to offer a sincere change in perspective, even for the most devastating of circumstances, and that we can't underestimate its ability to bring us back from the brink. when i was travelling in armenia i made a special detour to tatev, a monastery built at the edge of a cliff, at the end of a long aerial tramway. i made sure to dress very conservatively that day, with my legs fully covered in loose pants, a loose top with long sleeves and a scarf covering my head. i kept my camera and phone safely inside my purse, as per the posted rules and, to respect the actual worshippers, i stayed towards the back of the monastery, sitting silently, even as other groups of local tourists snapped photos with flashes, wore miniskirts and generally caused a ruckus. so, imagine my surprise when a nun walked past me and gave me a firm slap on the arm! in shock, i shifted my position to move my legs out of her reach, in the process uncrossing my legs. it turns out that it was a rain spider and i had been sitting beneath its nest. it had just come out to say hello! it was late in the evening and i was wandering through sky avenue in genting highlands eating some ready-to-eat noodles before boarding the cable car back to kuala lumpur. suddenly, i heard sounds of hysterical laughter from behind one of the pillars near a subway kiosk. i decided to approach and see what was going on, but little did i expect to see a giant dinosaur come bursting around the corner snapping its jaws. however, by now my heart was beating rapidly and some natural instinct kicked in. i turned, ran and managed to spill the noodles i was eating all over the street. for some unknown reason, i was also laughing uncontrollably! a far less natural and more modern instinct then took over. this would make a great selfie! i stood in the path of the dinosaur which was now a few feet behind me. it opened its big mouth as if it wanted to take a huge chunk of me for dinner, but i still managed to force out a smile. as soon as i heard the sound of the camera shutter, i ran away from there without looking back. we were on our honeymoon in the galapagos and had spent a relaxing week sailing around the islands, snorkelling with sealions, and meeting marine iguanas. it was the culmination of a month travelling around peru and ecuador, and we were sad to be returning home. however, as we arrived at the tiny rustic airport and put our backpacks through the scanner, all hell broke loose. several armed guards suddenly appeared and marched hubbie off without a word of explanation. i ran pathetically behind, assuming there had been some sort of mix up, but as they took him behind a make-shift screen, i could see his bag lying forlornly on the ground, surrounded by suspicious officials. ironically, after all the effort of getting it home, that salt still sits in our kitchen cupboard 13 years later. yet another souvenir that seemed a good idea at the time. i spent a year of my university studies in malaysia and at the end of this year i went to an island for the weekend with some friends. my first plan when we got to our apparently vacant apartment was to use the bathroom, only to find to my horror that we were not alone. staring back at me when i opened the door was a one-metre long monitor lizard minding his own business, chilling out on the toilet. i went to the reception and tried to explain the situation and you can only imagine their faces when i gestured that they need to follow me to the toilet. the staff had an in-depth discussion and called more and more people to join, each turning up with different tools, implements and devices. the staff left us with strict instructions that when she came back we had to pull the lasso sharply and fish her out of the toilet and bring her to reception. sounds simple enough, all part of the normal contract between a hotel and the people staying! after about ten minutes in the water, i looked back at the beach to see a troop of baboons rifling through my stuff like a baby with its first bowl of jelly. when i finally got to the devastation that was once my belongings, there was not much left behind, including my clothes. after boys over flowers, a popular korean series, hit asia by a storm, i got curious about macau. so when my former employer asked me where i wanted to go for my next all expenses paid vacation as part of my incentives for finishing our biggest campaign to date, i chose macau. these were just some of the thoughts running through my head, alongside cakes, photographers and venues for our future nuptials. all thoughts quickly disappeared though when one of my colleagues shouted to me, crying and surrounded by scary looking men. due to the language barrier, he misunderstood this as resisting. and then he started giving signals to his colleagues to take us. most of the swat team just stood around scratching their heads, probably wondering why they were there in full battle gear surrounding dainty looking ladies in their early-twenties who could barely even open a wine bottle, let alone fight back against what was now a crowd of nearly 30 people. feeling secure and more confident, we went with them to the police station and got detained there for more than 4 hours that we almost missed our flight back home. it was the 8th january 2020, my birthday, and we were wanting to get from the town of chefchaouen in morocco to the city of fes. we bought two tickets for a 10am departure aboard one of the cheaper buses. having been ripped off earlier by the baggage handler, i had no money for the toilet and had to beg a fellow passenger to give me some coins. i made it back to the bus just in time. i still have no idea how this happened because my legal name is estella gold, and the american airlines employee took my name from my passport. i went back to the same woman, and she apologised and gave me a new ticket. i asked if i could have my original spot back on the standby list, and i was told no. a crowd had started to gather around, and i realized there was no point in continuing this conversation. it was a little exposed, and i basically had to ask everyone else in the group to look the other way, as there was nowhere to hide. i was wearing a wetsuit, so in order to pee, i had to take everything off. mid-flow i looked up and to my dismay, a cruise ship rounded the bend with about 50 people looking over the side, cameras in hand. overcome with embarrassment as everyone stared, all i could think to do was smile and wave. i was living in my campervan at the time and left the window open late at night. when i returned to the car i found a giant huntsman spider sitting right on the steering wheel. huntsman, though technically harmless to humans, are bloody huge and are one of those creatures that would make a great white shark look cute and cuddly. i was already preparing to camp next to the car overnight when the spider reappeared after around 30 minutes. using one of those most versatile and important of survival tools, a selfie stick, my boyfriend was somehow able to guide it out of the car window and back into the great outdoors of northern queensland. it looked like a housing estate, smelled like a factory and was severely lacking on the bus stop front! we were all boiling hot, had all but given up on surviving let alone finding a bus stop and regretted not letting google maps guide us! in the end, we took a taxi to portimao and spent the rest of the day chilling by the harbour and exploring the beautiful praia da rocha. the following day we finally took the bus to lagos, this time asking the hotel receptionist for directions! we packed all the necessities like cider, a blow-up bed and a small two-man tent and hit the road. when we arrived at the site, the wind was at a level that even michael fish would worry about but as experienced campers thought we knew better than the weatherman and decided to try and put the tent up anyway. 20 minutes of wrestling between nature and canvas, the tent pole snapped in half. what we lack in skill we make up for in determination, so we headed off to the local camping store to find a solution. you know, the kind who actually know what they are doing, with their big fancy camping kits. the trip where the only answer was to get very drunk on cider each night to forget that we were basically sleeping outdoors. many people know the palace of versailles for its opulent decor, decadent rooms, and the infamous debauchery of the french court. however, the palace of versailles began its life as a small hunting lodge before it became the large, 63,000 square meter palace. the palace of versailles spreads over 63,000 square meters and contains 2,300 rooms. the palace of versailles is open every day except on mondays, from 9:00 am to 6:30 pm. the estate of trianon is open from noon to 6:30 pm every day except mondays. the low season at the palace of versailles lasts from the first of november until the end of march. the low season coincides with the colder months in paris, so there are fewer visitors during these months. during the low season, the palace closes an hour earlier at 5:30 pm, and the ticket office closes right before 5 pm. the garden shows are one of the most amazing things to see at the palace of versailles. the fountain and garden shows represent the splendor and opulence during life at versailles, featuring music from the period. the musical fountains shows are shown every weekend, and the musical gardens are open from tuesday to friday. alex pasternack helped compile these responses, which have been lightly edited and pared down for length. the horizon of 2022 presents a watershed moment in time. it is paramount to the future of this planet that we be collectively devoted in advancing scientific research and technological breakthroughs that promote climate resiliency. the pandemic has created deep challenges and created a new urgency for innovative, scientific solutions that protect against evolving health threats, specifically the critical need to grow and enhance our national and global biosecurity capabilities. additionally, there will be a larger emphasis on technologies that preserve the basic resources needed for human survival and counteract environmental threats. while i think this is the most important thing we need to talk about as a species, it will likely be in nascent or shallow stages in 2022: real understanding of how online communication changes perception and understanding. we live in an era where adults who have been fully vaccinated from measles, mumps, and polio from infancy who are refusing to get one specific vaccine now. we see people vastly misunderstanding new tech, like what an nft actually is, or the limitations of augmented reality. we need better ways of communicating complex ideas. the emerging trend that will pick up steam in 2022 is innovative sponsored tuition and training programs to provide real, marketable skills not only for existing employees, but also to intentionally increase diversity in the workplace. old school is becoming the new school, with universities and businesses partnering to create more modern apprenticeship-style programs that provide both in-depth knowledge and real-world training that help prepare non-traditional job-seekers for lifelong learning and a real career, not just a job. labor shortages are expected to continue as we head into 2022, leaving many companies scrambling to find skilled workers and resources. robots will provide a solution for many organizations that are looking to fill labor gaps, reduce on-the-job injuries, and directly impact their bottom line. the app development process will become more democratized and publicly transparent. as the digital world is increasingly becoming the center of our daily lives, i think the public deserves to know what is being worked on in the apps that we use everyday. when companies share the concepts they are thinking of, people will be able to give feedback, shaping the feature to what people want. according to oecd, 95 percent of students in switzerland, norway, and austria have a computer to use for their schoolwork, compared to only 34 percent in indonesia. and in the us, virtually all 15-year-olds from a privileged background said they had a computer to work on, while nearly a quarter of those from disadvantaged backgrounds did not. the healthcare industry has traditionally been one of the most resistant when it comes to it and digital technology uptake. however, the covid-19 pandemic showed the huge potential, and real-world functionality, of telehealth technologies as vital tools to help avoid the spread of viruses through tracking, testing and treating. in a research innovation project launched in september 2020, ericsson, telia and sahlgrenska university hospital in sweden used ai to help monitor and manage the demand on healthcare resources, creating and refining advanced ai analysis and insight models for the planning and prediction of healthcare resources. telehealth also provided other game-changing ways to address the challenges of providing health services at home, through video conferencing, e-mail, telephone, or smartphone apps. a 2020 study also concluded that the covid-19 pandemic had forced important changes in the healthcare industry which may help to establish telehealth more firmly in the years to come. this will be a vital step in building trust and technological literacy for the revolutionary innovations set to transform the future of medicine. even when shopping in-store, almost 90 percent of shoppers in the us now claim to prefer touchless or self-checkout features. and with security always a high priority in an increasingly globalized world, facial recognition security systems are becoming more and more common. these safe and undeniably convenient innovations have been made possible with more advanced processors and memory chips, better image sensors, smarter ai and faster communications networks, all of which will continue to improve in the coming years. one possibility is that artificial intelligence may become more and more powerful over time due to the changing nature of our media consumption. discover more about how consumers are adapting to the new normal and how connectivity has helped them through the pandemic. find out what else is likely to shape our daily lives in the years to come, in our latest consumerlab future urban reality report. learn about the shift from healthcare to homecare with our consumerlab report investigating the critical role of 5g in healthcare transformation. read the latest report by the economist intelligence unit, connecting learners: narrowing the educational divide. review marketing is vital to the continued success of every business. customer reviews are the valuable social proof needed by those looking to finalize purchase decisions based on experience from previous customers. a significant amount of reviews culminates in an overall rating that easily tells whether your brand is worth the investment or if people should go to a competitor. for many, having that many customer reviews can be difficult, which makes the art of asking for reviews and building a successful review marketing strategy a sought-after practice. over time, those positive reviews can also be used as free yet powerful marketing assets, which adds to the visual social proof needed for people to purchase from you. before asking for customer reviews, you should make sure that your brand has a listing you control on popular review sites. aside from google and facebook, there are plenty of other business review sites that might be worthy of a listing, but you will need to do some research of your own to see if these sites are worth your time - and in some cases - money. by establishing and actively monitoring your listings, you can have a better understanding of your brand perception. there are many ways to go about asking for reviews, but the unifying idea across every method is that the process for writing and submitting a review needs to be as easy as possible. in other words, reduce the friction, or the amount of steps needed to take when leaving a review. if you are handing them a physical card at checkout, make sure the link you provide in the text is not a long url. if you ask for a review via sms messaging, ensure that the link takes people directly to your online listing and not to a step-by-step process of how to leave a review. those sending review requests via email can even take it one step further and add an appealing email image or design that also serves as a direct link to where people can leave reviews. for example, you can collect user feedback about a specific update with a tool like beamer. users can react to each announcement with a smiley face and leave a detailed comment. review management solutions like reviewtrackers include features that let you create and customize multiple review request templates so that you can easily send them to customers in a matter of seconds. getting more reviews also means that you have to show the best of your current set of reviews in the right places. in addition to your listings, you can show off your rave reviews on your social media accounts and business website. before doing so, keep in mind some general tips when it comes to showing off reviews. can you use it to attract more people to try a specific product or service? if possible, try to also tag the user who left the review. people love the limelight, especially when it comes from a brand they love and support. be sure to also engage with those liking, sharing, and responding to the post. they might be prospective customers who want to know more before making a purchase from you. taking the time to talk to those engaging with the post is a great way to start community management, which can net you more trust online, on top of more customers willing to leave you a review in the future. however, take the time to also find other places on your site that could benefit from customer feedback. by showing off your best reviews in this star rating range, you make it easier for people to see why they should choose you over the competition, creating a faster purchase decision and overall conversion. however, the real challenge lies in creating that loop where review requests lead to more reviews, which in turn attracts more customers who are then also willing to provide feedback. the best practices above are foundational pieces for that loop. if you take the time to listen, implement customer feedback, and engage with consumers, you can elevate your brand to new heights that make it easier for you to gain and retain loyal customers. i've learned that video tutorials are a great way to teach my students, and open source tools have helped me take my video-production skills to the next level. this article will explain how to get started and add artfulness and creativity to your video tutorial projects. teaching people how to make videos can help increase the number of people participating in open source software. enabling users to record themselves using software helps them share their knowledge. teaching people how to do basic screen capture is a good way to make it easier for users to file bug reports on open source software. screen capture is the natural starting place for creating things like a video tutorial for a piece of software. still, obs is also useful for tutorials that use physical objects, like electronics or woodworking. a simple use is to record a presentation, but it also supports webcams and switching views to combine multiple webcams and screen captures. in fact, you can combine a simple presentation with a tutorial; in this case, the presentation slides provide structure to the other tutorial content. this example implements a three-scene setup: one scene is the webcam, another scene is a full desktop display capture, and the third is the display capture with a webcam video inset. if you are using a new obs installation, you'll see a single blank scene called "scene" without any sources in the lower-left corner. if you have an existing obs installation, you can start fresh by creating a new scene collection from the scene collection menu. now that the screen capture setup is finished, you can start making a basic software tutorial. click start recording in the lower-right corner under controls, record whatever you want to show in your tutorial, and use the scene selector to control what source you are recording. changing scenes is like making a cut when editing a video, except it happens in real time while you are doing the tutorial. because scene transitions in obs happen in real time, this is more time-efficient than editing your video after the fact, so i recommend you try to do most of the scene transitions in obs. when you are finished recording, click stop recording. to find the video you recorded, use the file menu and select show recordings. obs is a powerful tool with many more features than i have described. you can learn more about adding text labels, streaming, and other features in linux video editing in real time with obs studio and how to livestream games like the pros with obs. for specific questions and technical issues, obs has a great online user forum. if you make mistakes when recording the screen capture or want to shorten the video, you'll need to edit it. you also might want to edit your video to make it more creative and artful. adding creativity is also fun, and i believe having fun is necessary for sustaining your effort over time. b-roll footage is also used to build shot sequences. just like software engineers build design patterns from individual statements, functions, and classes, videographers build shot sequences from individual shots or clips. these shot sequences enhance the video's quality and creativity. showing pictures of yourself doing the activity can also help people better imagine doing it. there is a body of research about so-called "mirror neurons" that fire when observing another person's actions, especially hand movements. the five-shot sequence is also a pattern used by professional video journalists, so using it can give your video an appearance of professionalism. in addition to these five b-roll shots, you may want to record yourself introducing the video. this could be done in obs using the webcam, but recording it with a smartphone camera gives you options for different views and backgrounds. you can use a smartphone camera to capture b-roll footage for the five-shot sequence. not only are they ubiquitous, but smartphones' connectedness makes it easy to use filesharing applications to sync your video to your editing application on your computer. i use openshot, an open source video editor. like obs, it is programmed in qt, so it runs on a variety of operating systems. tracks are openshot's main abstraction, and tracks can be made up of clips of individual project files, including video, audio, and images. after adding the five clips to the project files area, drag and drop the first clip to the top track. the tracks are like layers, and the higher-numbered tracks are in front of the lower-numbered tracks, so the top track should be track four or five. ideally, each shot of the five-shot sequence will be about two or three seconds long; if they are longer, cut out the parts you don't want. you can do a lot more with openshot transitions, and openshot's user guide can help you learn about the options. this example used obs to capture two sources, the webcam and the screen capture, but it was all done with a single device, the computer. if you have video from another device, like a standalone camera, you might want to use two parallel tracks to combine the camera video and the screen capture. however, because obs can capture multiple sources on one screen in real time, another option would be to use a second webcam instead of a standalone video camera. doing all the recording in obs and switching scenes while doing the screen capture would enable you to avoid after-the-fact editing. for the audio component of the recording, your computer's built-in microphone might be fine. it is also simpler and saves money. if your computer's built-in microphone is not good enough, you may want to invest in a dedicated microphone. you might think it is better to have no background noise. while this might be true for recording music, having some ambient room noise can even out the differences between clips recorded in different acoustic environments. to do this, record about a minute of the ambient sound in the target environment. you might not end up needing it, but it is easier to make a brief audio recording at the outset if you anticipate recording in different environments. audio compression is another technique that can help you fix volume issues if they arise. compression helps reduce the differences between quiet and loud audio, and it has settings to not amplify background noise. audacity is a useful open source audio tool that includes compression. using a clapper is helpful if you plan to edit multiple simultaneous audio recordings together. you can use the sharp peak in audio volume from the clapper to synchronize different tracks because the clapping noise makes it easier to line up the different recordings. a related issue is estimating the time and effort required to finish tasks and projects. this can be hard for many reasons, but there are some general rules of thumb that can help you estimate the time it will take to complete a video production project. first, as i noted, it is easier to use obs scene transitions to switch views while recording than to edit scene transitions after the fact. if you can capture transitions while recording, you have one less task to do while editing. another rule of thumb is that as the amount of recorded material increases, it takes more time and effort in general. for one, recording more material takes more time. also, more material increases the overhead of organizing and editing it. conversely and somewhat counterintuitively, given the same amount of raw material, a shorter final project will generally take more time and effort than a longer final project. when the amount of input is constant, it is harder to edit the content down to a shorter product than if you have less of a constraint on the final video's length. considering how much of a role your mental health plays in each aspect of your life, it's important to guard and improve psychological wellness using appropriate measures. the following factors, listed below, may affect mental well-being and could increase the risk of developing psychological disorders. when a child is subjected to physical assault, sexual violence, emotional abuse, or neglect while growing up, it can lead to severe mental and emotional distress. abuse increases the risk of developing mental disorders like depression, anxiety, post-traumatic stress disorder, or personality disorders. your biological makeup could determine the state of your well-being. a number of mental health disorders have been found to run in families and may be passed down to members. whether young or old, the importance of mental health for total well-being cannot be overstated. when psychological wellness is affected, it can cause negative behaviors that may not only affect personal health but can also compromise relationships with others. when mental and emotional states are at peak levels, the challenges of life can be easier to overcome. mental health greatly correlates with personal feelings about oneself. overall mental wellness plays a part in your self-esteem. confidence can often be a good indicator of a healthy mental state. if your mental health is in good standing, you might be more capable of providing your friends and family with quality time, affection, and support. when you're not in emotional distress, it can be easier to show up and support the people you care about. dealing with depression or other mental health disorders can impact your productivity levels. if you feel mentally strong, it's more likely that you will be able to work more efficiently and provide higher quality work. when mental well-being thrives, your quality of life may improve. this can give room for greater participation in community building. for example, you may begin volunteering in soup kitchens, at food drives, shelters, etc. another proven way to improve and maintain mental well-being is through the guidance of a professional. talk therapy can teach you healthier ways to interact with others and coping mechanisms to try during difficult times. therapy can also help you address some of your own negative behaviors and provide you with the tools to make some changes in your own life. your mental health state can have a profound impact on all areas of your life. if you're finding it difficult to address mental health concerns on your own, don't hesitate to seek help from a licensed therapist. identifying which passenger characteristics are most closely associated with the decline is a necessary step towards understanding the causes of behavior change. if the ridership loss is particularly prevalent among certain socio-demographic groups, then the factors leading to this shift in travel behavior could be identified. if, however, the ridership decline is evenly distributed, then the underlying cause could be a blanket factor affecting all in the same way. based on this determination, transit agencies would then be able to anticipate future changes in bus ridership and find ways to reverse the trend. they could, for example, decide whether to lure back lost riders with more service or concentrate on other promising market segments. this paper makes three main contributions. the first is to verify results from the literature regarding socio-demographic characteristics associated with bus ridership at one point in time. the second, which is by far the most important, is to evaluate the shifts in travel behavior within sociodemographic groups with the goal of furthering our understanding of the current ridership crisis. we are particularly interested in exploring how the variables that correlate with high-ridership at a point in time, including race, vehicle ownership, and education, help explain the ridership change over time. the third contribution of this research is to evaluate how much socio-demographics surrounding bus service have shifted over time and whether urban migration could explain some of the ridership decline on a hyper-local level. in order to make the connection between the national bus ridership decline and demographic shift, the magnitude of the phenomenon must be quantified. table 5 shows the network-level change in proportion of white residents. the first row contains the change in percent of white residents over the entire service area. people moving from transit-oriented neighborhoods to low-density suburbs may still have access to a bus stop but would be far less likely to use it. to take into consideration the temporal dimension of transit accessibility, the second row of table 5 shows the change in percent of white residents over the entire network weighted by the service frequency at nearby segments. in other words, someone living near a high frequency route is counted more heavily than someone living in a low-service area. in portland and minneapolis, the proportion of white residents has declined overall, while it increased in miami and atlanta. in portland and minneapolis, the weighted change is greater than the non-weighted change, which indicates that the decrease in demwhite is concentrated in low-service areas. in atlanta, the overall increase in proportion of white residents was offset by a decrease in the most concentrated areas of service. when weighting by frequency, the proportion of white residents decreased overall. miami is the only place where the places having access to bus service on both a spatial and spatio-temporal level have become whiter. trends in telecommuting and ridehailing therefore coincide with the ridership decline across time and neighborhood socio-demographics, especially in miami and atlanta. in minneapolis, where the proportion of local residents who are white is correlated with ridership loss and the proportion of college-educated residents is associated with ridership gain, these phenomena are less likely to be the main driving factors. the authors wish to extend heartfelt gratitude for staff members at trimet, miami-dade transit, metro transit, and marta for providing us with the data and helping us understand their transit systems. in particular, we thank nathan banks at trimet, eric lind, janet hopper, and john levin, at metro transit, esther frometa-spring at miami-dade transit, and nazma akhter, lekha mukherjee, ivelisse matos, and robert goodwin at marta. finally, we thank rashad strickland from clever devices and thomas kowalsky from urban transportation associates for their help navigating the data and understanding the technology. economists are showing increasing interest in the use of text as an input to economic research. the fgf illustrates the use of online data to create a measure of welfare which is not based, as gdp is, on value added in a market-oriented economy. in unstructured online media text, users reveal their emotions in ways analogous to the principle of revealed preference in consumer demand theory. the analysis of online media offers further advantages over conventional survey-based measures of sentiment or well-being. it can be carried out in real time rather than with the lags which are involved in survey approaches. in addition, it is very much cheaper. the fgf measures in real time the sentiment of the population of greater london expressed through social media, and in particular on twitter. the national accounts were developed in the 1930s in response to the pressing need of policy makers to know what was happening to output. it was very clear that there had been a catastrophic collapse in output in many economies. but a systematic way of measuring output in market-oriented economies had not yet been developed. this was the initial purpose of developing the measurement of gdp. such series may or may not prove useful in either understanding or predicting series in the traditional national accounts. this is emphatically not how they should be judged. they represent information which is additional to that contained in the national accounts. section 2 sets out the basic principles of our approach. section 3 describes the methodology of obtaining quantitative representations of text before it can be given to machine learning algorithms for classification analysis. in section 4 we consider the choice of machine learning algorithms. section 5 presents the technical results. section 6 plots the london feel good factor which is generated and offers a short discussion around this. an important point to make from the outset is that we are not suggesting that the particular way in which we estimate sentiment in greater london is completely definitive. as will be apparent, judgement is required in several key places. our results should be regarded as illustrative of the kind of measurement which can be carried out using information available in text sources. as was the case with the national accounts, consensus will build over time on how to carry out the various steps in the process. the analysis of text on social media offers three distinct advantages over these conventional approaches. first, there is a theoretical advantage. economic theory is built on the principle of revealed preference.  surveys which elicit opinions and answers to hypothetical questions are not as firmly based as the observed actions of agents. agents reveal their preferences by their decisions. in the same way, in social media conversations, agents reveal their emotions and attitudes. second, it can be carried out in real time rather than with the lags which are involved in conventional survey approaches. perhaps more pertinently, huge effort has gone into trying to ensure with conventional survey techniques that the sample reflects the socio-economic composition of the relevant population. this is transparently not the case at the moment with twitter. we note that, for all their apparent sophistication, survey techniques do not always achieve their intention. it is well known, for example, that support for right wing parties during election polling is often underestimated, and survey companies devote a lot of effort to try to correct for this. further, as time goes by, social media publication platforms such as twitter may well evolve to be more representative of the socio-economic composition of the population. there is evidence to suggest that emotions and attitudes on twitter may in practice already be a more or less unbiased indicator of those of the population as a whole. conventional socio-economic classifications of samples may not be relevant. we carried out another real time study for a commercial client during the 2017 general election. this identified within a few days of the election being called that the share of the vote of the two main parties would rise sharply, reversing decades of decline. we showed that brexit was the principal topic in online conversations, in contrast to perceptions based upon mainstream media. when the british election survey published their results in early august 2017, their identification that brexit had been the most important single topic came as a surprise to many commentators. and during the last few days of the campaign, social media analysis indicated a further slight shift away from the conservatives, in contrast to most of the survey based conventional polls. these are tweets about any topic, football, holidays, going to the pub, your job, your commute to work, whatever. no screening of content is carried out. we take the raw material of the tweets. this is by design, as our intention is to create a general indication of wellbeing as a whole. one can readily focus the measure on particular topics with a more specific selection of tweets. the algorithm does not simply count specific words from a pre-assigned list whose emotional content is measured outside the text. it learns the emotion directly from the text, as we describe in detail below. there are several potential ways in which such a set could be developed. here, we rely on the emojis which are contained in many tweets. in greater london, around 20 per cent of tweets contain emojis. over the full data period, 15 june 2016 to the end of 2019, this gives us some 13 million tweets with emojis. for training the classifier, we choose a random sample from this set of 10,000 positive tweets and a random sample of 10,000 negative tweets. we experimented with different sample sizes, but once the sample size for each category is more than just a few thousand, the results seem very robust with respect to sample size. we do not use any tweets containing the emoji  . clustering analysis of emojis indicates that this is used quite independently of others. inspection of a small sample of tweets containing this emoji indicated it is often used in both a positive and negative context. once we have selected the tweets, we exclude from them the emojis used for labelling. by doing so we force the machine learning classifiers to only look at the text of the tweets when deciding on their emotional content. of course, a slightly different set of emojis could be used. there are many other emojis indicating a variety of emotions and there are new ones regularly being created by tech companies such as apple. emojis of various kinds are becoming increasingly important means of communication on online media. the ones we use here seem to us a good starting point. we ran a small experiment to try to establish a benchmark as to how accurate a machine learning analysis of such tweets might be. we selected 50 positive and 50 negative tweets at random from the populations of positive and negative london tweets, using emojis to determine whether they were positive or negative. we then shuffled the tweets and put them into an excel file. we again stripped out all the emojis, leaving just the text of the tweets. we sent the file to 11 employees of a consultancy company based in london and asked them to fill in whether the tweets were positive or negative, based purely on the text, by entering a 1 or a 0 against each tweet. all the people involved work in london and so are familiar with the social and cultural environment of the capital. all except one is trained as either an economist or a psychologist. most of them are in their 20s, and so have a natural familiarity with online media in general. we might therefore reasonably expect this small group to be better than a random selection from the uk population at judging the emotional content of a tweet. further, the tweets they were given are ones which have emojis attached to them and so might reasonably be assumed to have definite emotional content. a random selection of tweets from the entire population, rather than the subset of this which contain emojis, would be harder to classify. we summed the choices made by the 11 humans across the 100 tweets. we assume that if a tweet scores 0, 1 or 2, it is definitely negative, and if it scores 9, 10 or 11 it is definitely positive. there are 82 of these in total. the remaining 18 score between 3 and 8, essentially distributed equally across these scores. in other words, in 18 per cent of the tweets, humans do not agree as to whether the emotional content is positive or negative. in this section we discuss the conversion of the text of the tweets into some form of quantitative representation for analysis by machine learning algorithms. we use methods which are standard in machine learning. the authors assemble a very large corpus of words from sources such as twitter, wikipedia and a site which crawls web pages. a co-occurrence matrix is constructed, which describes how frequently pairs of words co-occur with each other in any given corpus. we also examine a variant of the glove methodology. the corpus of english words used by glove may of course be dominated by sources from the united states and more generally by american english. our purpose is to construct a real-time indicator of sentiment tweets originating in greater london. most of these will obviously use british english. further, their content, whilst very wide ranging as any casual inspection of individual tweets chosen at random will show, will tend to reflect the preoccupations of londoners rather than more global ones. of course, many tourists in london will tweet, but the resident population of london is now almost 9 million. in this section we consider which algorithms to use in order to classify the tweets into positive and negative categories. they construct a large number of decision trees in training by sampling with replacement from the observations. each tree in the collection is formed by first selecting at random, at each node, a small group of input coordinates to split on and, secondly, by calculating the best split based on these features in the training set. each tree gives a prediction, and the predictions are averaged. from the point of view of the bias-variance trade-off, the ensemble of a large number of trees trained on independent bootstrap samples, each with relatively large variance but low bias, achieve much reduced variance without the introduction of additional bias. an estimate of the confidence of a particular classification can similarly be made using the proportion of trees classifying the observation as the mode class. the machine learning community places great emphasis on what econometricians refer to as out-of-sample performance. as mentioned in section 2, we train the algorithms on 10,000 tweets selected at random from those containing at least one positive emoji, and 10,000 selected at random from those containing at least one negative emoji. the results set out below are therefore all based upon the out-of-sample performance of the models. there is a potentially very large grid of options to search in terms of which model to use in the validation step described in the above paragraph. we need to examine: which algorithm to choose; which hyperparameters of the chosen algorithm to select; whether to use the glove or word2vec word vector representation; and, finally, the dimension of the word vectors. initially, we examined the relative performance of the glove and word2vec approaches, and investigated the appropriate dimension of the word vectors to use in further analysis. we compare the performance of the random forest, linear svm and radial basis svm using the default values of the hyperparameters in python. we use the algorithms available in the scikit-learn python package. more specifically, the linearsvc function to train and evaluate the linear svm, the svc function for the svm with rbf kernel and the randomforestclassifier function to train and evaluate random forests. we report the percentage of tweets which are correctly classified taking the average of the performance out-of-sample in each of the 10 folds, and the variance of this number across the 10 folds. the mean accuracy is the percentage of tweets which are correctly classified, averaging the results of each fold of the 10-fold process. sd accuracy is the variance of the accuracy across the 10-folds. our next step was to examine the effect of different values of the hyperparameters of the algorithms, applying them to the word2vec data set with 200 dimensions. the first step was to examine the results using random forests and linear svms. these results are set out in tables 2a and 2b. these results suggest that the choice of sampling makes little difference, but that more trees and more depth improve classification accuracy. the results obtained with the linear svm approach do seem slightly better than those of the random forest. the table on the left is the svm and on the right the random forest. the svm gives a slightly higher number of correct classifications. further, the errors are more balanced, with the random forest errors being weighted towards classifying positive tweets as negative. we therefore choose the svm model for the validation stage. table 4 below shows the confusion matrix when it is presented with an entirely new set of 10,000 positive and 10,000 negative tweets. the power spectrum also takes high values at very low frequencies, suggesting there is some kind of quarterly or half-yearly seasonality in the data, though given that we only have two and a half years of data we cannot be definitive about its exact nature. the series clearly varies considerably, but it passes several tests of common sense. for example, in each year at christmas and new year, there are substantial fluctuations. the series rises on 24 and 25 december, falling back sharply on 26 december. there are further peaks on 31 december and 1 january, before dropping on 2 and 3 january. there is a sharp low point on 9 november 2016, the day that liberal london learned that it was to be president trump rather than president clinton. finally, since the spring of 2019 there is an obvious negative trend in the series, reflecting the gloom of remain london when confronted with the imminence of brexit. we are not of course suggesting that the series is an infallible guide to the economic prospects of london. it does, however, provide policy makers with real time information which previously simply could not have been generated. for example, the uk treasury had predicted an immediate recession in the second half of 2016 if britain voted leave in the brexit referendum of june of that year. the fgf showed that there was no sign of a collapse in mood in london. indeed, the population seemed to become more content after the brexit vote. it is possible, though this is speculation on our part, that politicians may find series such as this more useful than the crown jewel of the nation accounts, real gdp. movements in output of course affect the economic welfare of the electorate. but the feelings and sentiment of the electorate may be a much more tangible series for elected politicians. 25 out of 74 reviewed documents in the current study have provided solutions to bmi of the firms and entities of the fsc. table 4 classifies these 25 documents based on their focus on the fsc and the business model strategies. it means that the documents are firstly classified according to which part of the supply chain is focused on the purpose of the article. on the other hand, the position of each document in each row of table 4 reflects the business model strategy that the document applied to bmi. each of these articles is described below in detail on the basis of their position in the supply chain. nk has conceptualized the problem; nk and as have carried out the investigation; mo has contributed to funding acquisition; nk, as, and mo have discussed the results in the process of investigation; nk has drafted the paper; all co-authors have contributed to writing the manuscript. internet finance is an innovative form of finance that has grown faster than any other financial innovation in recent years. there is an essential difference between internet finance and traditional finance. internet finance is not a simple fusion between traditional financial institutions and the internet, but is represented by internet companies. financial innovation based on internet technology is more biased towards technology companies using information technology in order to improve the efficiency and model of financial services such as financing, investment and payment. the entire internet industry adopts this unique method to reinforce its strength in continuous financing and acquisitions. this business model believes that value is created not only by producers, but also by customers and other members of their value creation ecosystem. from this point of view, a company in the internet industry only needs to make strategic investments and acquisitions in a range of fields to obtain business and users in this field, and to use these businesses to deploy infrastructure to serve original users, thus strengthening its position in the digital economy. from this perspective, competitive positions can be obtained from multiple perspectives, such as based on resource supply and user activity. this concept has led to frequent acquisitions and investment activities among the internet industry. at present, there are few papers on the model, risks, or characteristics of internet finance in major economic systems. the purpose of this article is to study risk fluctuations based on the consideration of corporate value disturbances. we take into account that some internet companies have excellent risk control capabilities, which makes them able to withstand the fluctuation of risks in a higher position while building their position in the digital economy. at this time, if the angle of risk mass is used to measure risk, distortion will often occur. in order to solve these potential problems, we have formed several additional comparative tests, including comparisons between internet financial companies and other internet companies, comparisons between internet technology companies involving various businesses, and comprehensive index and corporate stock prices. we pay attention to the local correlation of risks, realize the process from scale transformation to feature extraction, and obtain the features with overlapping risk cycles from it. we further found that the amount of risk does not accurately reflect the risk of internet technology companies. specifically, the high risk volume can indeed reflect that the enterprise itself is in crisis. however, while some enterprises have high risk indicators, their life span, market value, and user base are still in the leading position of internet technology companies. this is the aforementioned relationship between ecological value and risk. our results show that companies with large risk values do not necessarily have the largest risk fluctuations. the value of the risk can only reflect the volume of the risk, but the risk fluctuation can show changes in investor confidence within a certain time frame, so it can better target internet companies. through this channel, internet technology companies can learn about their own risk position in the industry, and regulatory agencies can observe the industry's overall risk dynamics in a timely manner in order to prevent and deal with the corresponding problems. from our correlation test results, we can find that the correlation of risks is easily disturbed by market factors. specifically, companies in the us market have a certain degree of similarity in risk fluctuations, and companies in the chinese market have types of similarity. in summary, our results emphasize that the partial periodic overlap of risk volatility is an important feature that is difficult to decouple within the internet industry. in the process of real market operation, there exists the situation that a single enterprise focuses on a certain format, and there is also the situation that an organization is involved in multiple formats. there is the penetration of internet enterprises into financial business, and there is also the use of internet technology by traditional financial institutions to compete in the market. there are formal financial enterprises with licenses, but there are also "shadow banks" free from the private sector. firstly, internet financial institutions use the marketing strategy of two-way subsidies to merchants and consumers to promote offline merchants to open mobile payment functions. secondly, internet financial institutions have opened the multi-country currency payment function and started the mobile payment function in domestic and overseas consumer markets. thirdly, internet financial institutions and personal credit investigation are linked to build a credit consumption system, using artificial intelligence and big data to gradually improve the online payment environment based on the credit system, providing a technical analysis basis for microfinance and credit consumption. one is p2p lending, an online platform for financial services initiated by internet companies. the platform provides matching services for users with financing or investment needs. the other is the internetization of traditional microfinance, which is initiated by traditional financial institutions and extends the source of customers through the assistance of internet technology, which is an improvement in efficiency. from the perspective of the business model of internet lending, its innovation lies in the use of point-to-point matchmaking, where investors remit funds to the platform and lend them to the demander through the platform. such a business model also brings capital risk easily. firstly, users' funds are deposited in the online loan platform, and the credibility of the online loan platform is crucial. secondly, if the borrower defaults or breaks his promise, it will have an impact on the online loan platform itself. thirdly, stock market volatility will often cause the withdrawal effect of the online lending platform. if the platform's capital strength and risk control ability are weak, negative news will easily cause a run. the main users of internet lending services are small and micro enterprises or individual consumers, and the users are often from the objects not served by traditional financial institutions. internet companies attach great importance to the user base, compete in the market through subsidies, and have low barriers to entry for customers; this means the customer quality of internet lending carries risk attributes. in the process of competing in the internet lending market, native internet companies operate without licenses, which is essentially regulatory arbitrage. some enterprises have a weak awareness of risk control, and their technical conditions fail to meet requirements. after the gradual tightening of the regulatory layer at the later stage, they have accelerated the preferential selection in the market. as a result, some platforms were closed down, the capital chain was broken, and the interests of customers were damaged. crowdfunding platforms like angellist, fundable, crowdfunder, and equitynet can also increase the rate of information sharing, negotiation, and fundraising. internet fund refers to the direct communication between investment clients and third-party financial institutions on the basis of internet media, so as to bypass the involvement of banks, which is an extension and supplement of traditional financial services. under this "financial disintermediation" financial management mode, banks no longer play a paid connection role between customers and third-party financial management institutions, weakening the financial intermediary status of banks, greatly improving financial management efficiency and reducing financial management cost. compared with traditional trust business, internet trust has the following advantages: firstly, the use of internet technology to disclose information on trust products in a timely fashion in order to improve the transparency of the operation of trust products and better fit the needs of users; secondly, drawing from the real needs of customers, the improvements in service through the internet platform; and thirdly, the use of internet technology to provide quality all-round services for the stock of customers, such as net value management and coupon reminder. this refers to the provision of financial services with information, electronic and data characteristics for each link or stage of consumption through internet technology and platform, including but not limited to payment, financing, liquidation, etc. the internet consumer finance model is divided into vertical installment purchase platform and e-commerce consumer finance platform. when consumers need to purchase goods and services from merchants, they can apply for instalment credit from instalment purchase platforms. after the application is approved, merchants can immediately provide corresponding products or services. this method mainly cuts into the consumption scene with low traditional consumer finance penetration through installment service or consumer loan, but its defect lies in high risk control requirements. since it is difficult to have the advantage of e-commerce big data for a certain vertical market segment, most installment purchase platforms rely on internet credit investigation and have a high bad debt rate. business risks include capital flow risk, market cycle risk, interest rate risk, user preference risk and investor relationship risk. there will be some degree of contagion between the segmented risks. for example, internet financial enterprises cannot obtain sufficient funds at reasonable cost in time to cope with the growth of assets or to pay the debts due, thus causing the risk of capital chain breaking, which may be caused by investor relationships, as well as interest rate risk and market cycle. from the perspective of external impact, business risk types will generate cross-class contagion with other risk types, mainly reflected in credit risk types and enterprise operation risk types. for example, the performance of internet finance affects the health of its capital flow. this is because a large number of platforms attract users through financing and subsidies in the process of business development, which makes the health of capital flow within the platform extremely important. the payment and settlement functions of internet finance belong to the basic services of banks and contribute important non-interest income to banks. the new payment and settlement channels provided by internet finance have affected the intermediary business of traditional finance. there is a risk generation mechanism between internet finance and traditional finance. through the impact of internet lending business, internet fund business and internet payment business on traditional banks, they have successfully squeezed the assets, liabilities and intermediate business of commercial banks, resulting in higher operating costs, lower profitability, loss of deposits and higher leverage ratio. the services provided by internet finance to users have changed the level of money supply and demand and interest rate and have had an impact on the intermediary variables of the macro economy. this led to the expansion of bank credit, the decline in the demand for money, the weakening of the effectiveness of macro-control, and finally to the banking crisis. as internet technology blurs the differences between industries, lowers the barriers to entry and leads to more intense competition, internet companies are forced to choose to directly obtain the right to use a technology or a business through investment and acquisition. this trend has created an ecological environment for investment and mergers in the existing internet industry. we believe that while the investment and acquisition of the internet industry increases the individual's competitive position in the industry, it will also affect the uncertainty risk of the entire industry. the risk of a company is rapidly spread throughout the industry, so this risk will be reflected in the trend similarity in risk volatility. in alibaba's financial report analysis, we can clearly find that research, development, sales and other expenses have steadily increased, while interest and investment income and income from operations have declined. this seems to indicate that the company's investment cannot be translated into actual returns. however, the company's revenue has risen at a faster rate, which indicates that the overall revenue and expenditure situation is more optimistic. the concept of business model in the internet industry may challenge the assumptions of traditional value creation and value acquisition theories. in contrast with the concept based on the internet business model, value creation is provided by both the supply side and the demand side. value is created not only by producers but also by customers and other members of their value-creating ecosystem. from this perspective, competitive position can be obtained from multiple perspectives, such as resource availability and user activity. therefore, we see alibaba's strategic investment and acquisitions in a range of areas as strengthening its digital economy leadership in china. these investments and acquisitions do not take profit as the primary purpose, but rather depend on whether the field is related to the current main business or whether it provides infrastructure, technology, services or products for its business development. these products can promote user activities and continue to create value for the entire ecosystem. however, such strategic investments and acquisitions still have an adverse impact on alibaba's financial performance. for example, if you acquire a company with a lower profit margin or a loss, such as the acquisition of a controlling stake in a company such as lazada and cainiao network, these acquired loss companies may not be profitable at all in the future. in addition, alibaba's investment to expand its business, facilities and workforce will also involve more other unpredictable cost risks, such as potential labour disputes, compliance costs and risks. in the process of considering risks, we must consider the possible ecological value behind the risks. therefore, how to comprehensively judge the relationship between the value and risk of internet companies is a very important research question. these risks that will occur, or have already occurred, will be transmitted to the market through other means, such as negative news, and cause investors to change their investment expectations for the enterprise. ultimately, the risks will be reflected in changes in stock prices. we selected stock price data of technology companies to build a risk model. according to different main businesses and the degree of attention given by the market, we selected fourteen chinese and american technology companies: alibaba, jd, facebook, paypal, ebay, google, apple, twitter, amazon, bidu, tencent, yrd, ppdf, and dnjr. some internet finance companies, despite their high market share and influence, have not gone public. these companies often come from large tech companies. for example, ant financial is from alibaba, wechat pay is from tencent, jingdong baitiao is from jingdong, and so on. we chose to include their parent company in our comparison. it is worth noting that due to china's regulatory issues, it is difficult for chinese technology companies to list in china, so most technology companies have chosen the adr method to list in the united states. in the introduction it was mentioned that internet finance is composed of internet technology and financial technology. it needs to comprehensively evaluate risks based on the value of the enterprise and also to evaluate risks based on the internet ecological foundation. this is because the value of the internet industry is created not only by producers, but also by customers and other members of their value creation ecosystem. therefore, in studying the process of risk formation, we also need to consider the possible ecological value behind the risk. therefore, the original risk research has not been able to describe the risks of the internet industry, especially the risks in the field of internet finance. we take into account that some internet companies have excellent risk control capabilities, which makes them able to withstand the fluctuation of risks in a higher position while building their position in the digital economy. at this time, if the angle of risk mass is used to measure risk, distortion will often occur. in order to eliminate the interference of the risk volume on the risk assessment results, we focus on the risk fluctuations in the time series to study the risk problem. we believe that for internet companies, the level of risk means different strategic layouts and different future value expectations. although the currently acquired companies and businesses and other business models are not profitable and cause certain risks, they can provide a future ecological environment and provide infrastructure construction. therefore, only by excluding the interference of the risk volume, can a comparative analysis of risk fluctuations be carried out for different enterprises from the same perspective. among them, the bmm model uses different statistical methods to model and analyze the maximum or minimum values in a series of independent and identically distributed observation data, so it needs to simulate a large amount of data. for internet finance, the number of listed companies and the time to market are often limited, due to the short development time, and this makes it difficult to obtain a large amount of data. these studies not only provide inspiration for our research, but also show that generalized pareto can be applied to the risk assessment of time series in various fields. based on this, this paper uses the generalized pareto distribution model to evaluate the risk of enterprises. among them, the role of threshold is very important. in the pot model, by setting a threshold in advance, all observed data exceeding this threshold are constituted into a data group, and the data group is taken as the object of modeling and applied to the generalized pareto distribution to calculate the risk value. in this section, we take four representative internet technology companies -- facebook, paypal, alibaba and jd -- as examples and list them as a set of comparative data to explain our analysis strategy. it should be noted that all four companies operate or invest in businesses with internet finance. however, since some of the invested companies are not listed on the stock market, it is difficult to obtain the stock price data, so we choose to use their parent companies, namely the four companies mentioned above, as the preliminary research objects. the main purpose of this section is to explore the effectiveness of the analysis strategy to lay the foundation for the comparative analysis in the following article. first, we used the original risk model to analyze the risk volume of the four companies. then, we used the rfr method to process the original data of the four companies. after that, we used the accumulation area chart to represent the risk proportion of each company and the risk change trend of the whole data set. since the value of the stacking area graph is expressed by relative height, the stack area map will not be covered or hidden with data points of different categories. as can be seen from the above image, facebook was the earliest to go public; the risk was higher in the early stage, and gradually decreased in the later stage. the results show paypal had the highest risk, followed by facebook, jd and alibaba. it is, therefore, just as we feared; such original risk volume cannot describe the risk contrast well. for example, the trends of alibaba and jd almost coincide, and so do the trends of facebook and paypal. a single internet company can be seen on the left as generating more volatility than others at any given moment. the chart on the right shows the total risk volatility of the four companies. since the interference of risk volume in the risk analysis process is excluded, we clearly describe the risk size of four different enterprises. we can compare the risk size of four enterprises at different times by the ordinate data of the picture. in addition, the cyclical correlation of the four enterprises also deserves our attention, which will be discussed more fully in the following sections. if individual companies don't show very substantial risk growth, every company does show some degree of risk growth. then the figure on the right will produce a large risk area, indicating that the enterprise risk in the industry is rising together, and the industry as a whole tends to increase risk. after the occurrence of risk in one enterprise, the degree of risk contagion and the success rate of contagion in the industry are reflected in the risk index of other companies. when one company has a risk, it can produce effective risk contagion to other companies. in the specified period of time, the risk of the industry will rise together. if the process of risk contagion is blocked due to good risk control mechanism in the industry, only the company will take risks, and the total risk of the whole industry tends to be stable. the advantages of this method are that on the one hand, it combines macro- and microanalysis; on the other hand, it considers the influence of risk in the process of infection. in addition, according to the selection of threshold value, we can use day, week, month and so on as units to measure, and can flexibly transform the required observation index details. internet technology companies are similar in business model, operation model, profit model, user characteristics, etc. therefore, we suspect that their risk fluctuation model is also correlated to some extent. the figure 9 shows the risk accumulation area of the composite index, and the picture below shows the risk accumulation area of fourteen companies. from comparisons, it can be found that the internet technology industry and the trend of the composite index is significantly different. thus, it can be proved that the strong correlation of cycles is a conjecture formed due to the special characteristics of the internet industry. in addition, the risk volatility of the composite index is much smaller than that of the technology industry, as can be seen from the vertical value of the two graphs. due to the large number of internet technology companies listed on nasdaq, the nasdaq is an emerging high-tech index that covers companies from telecoms to biotechnology and is the world's pre-eminent index of large capital growth. we have to consider the nasdaq because of its huge exposure to the technology sector. obviously, the risk volatility for tech companies is much larger, but the risk trends are almost similar across data values. this proves our conjecture that the securities market where enterprises are listed will lead to the convergence effect of risk changes. in addition, this also confirms that technology companies do not rule out the possibility of having a higher level of risk control. for example, we can find in the figure that after the risk fluctuates to a very high value, the next time series is a plummeting risk value. there are very few instances of continuous risk escalation. for this purpose, we counted the number of times when rfr was above and below 0 value, which was used to measure whether the interval of risk trajectory was high risk or low risk in a certain time range. the giants in the internet industry monopolize more user traffic in the market, and will make concessions, subsidies, and increase investment for more traffic. in the field of internet finance, this behaviour is a risk. from the perspective of the nature of investors in internet financial products, if most investors participating in internet financial products become users driven by benefits, it is likely that some users will lack the knowledge of investment and risk. we also discuss the business types of internet finance and study the frequent acquisitions and investment activities in the entire internet industry. we explain the purpose of this behavior and analyze its impact on the ecological value and risk exposure of the entire internet industry. finally, we raise some concerns about the internet industry. for the acquisition and investment of the internet industry, the important source of risk is the "externality" of microeconomic risk-taking activity. if a large internet company only considers the future ecological value and does not care about the profitability of the acquired enterprise in the process of acquiring the internet finance enterprise, then the acquired internet finance enterprise is prone to risk exposure of crisis events and various uncertainties. how well do readily-available rent estimates represent the rental spot market in different cities? this study analyzes craigslist rental listings to investigate the legibility of asking rents and the inconsistent stories that existing data sources tell us about current affordability conditions in tight markets. we find that existing sources typically understate how expensive it is for people to relocate, with particular ramifications for intermetropolitan movers and voucher holders. first, we discuss currently-available rental data sources and their trade-offs, then summarize existing research on the economic implications of rapidly rising rents. next, we describe our data sets and methods to analyze the discrepancies between existing data and the realities of the spot market. to do so, we compare the rental markets of 25 msas using acs, ahs, fmr, and craigslist data. finally, we discuss implications for planners and suggest how online rental listings and other sources of spot market data could be made more widely available to close this critical information gap. most governmental and proprietary data on rents report the prevailing terms of transacted leases. this information helps planners and policymakers assess affordability, calculate fmrs, and understand what existing renters pay in relation to local income and other socioeconomic traits. however, these data do not describe the spot market in which prospective renters and landlords produce an evolving equilibrium of new rents. asking rents could diverge substantially from data reporting transacted rents due to publication lags, market lags, subsidies, and rent control. rent data describing the full transacted market would particularly fail to describe current market conditions in locations with rapidly rising rents or large shares of rent-controlled units. yet it is these very cities and neighborhoods that often most concern housing scholars, practitioners, and advocates of housing justice and inclusivity. the authors wish to thank paul waddell, who graciously allowed the reuse of data originally collected in his lab at uc berkeley. blockchain technology is an interlinked systematic chain of blocks that contains transaction history and other user data. it works under the principle of decentralized distributed digital ledger. this technology enables cryptographically secure and anonymous financial transactions among the user nodes of the network enabling the transactions to be validated and approved by all the users in a transparent environment. it is a revolutionary technology that earned its emerging popularity through the usage of digital cryptocurrencies. even though blockchain holds a promising scope of development in the online transaction system, it is prone to several security and vulnerability issues. in this paper, blockchain methodology, its applications, and security issues are discussed which might shed some light on blockchain enthusiasts and researchers. blockchain is the foundation of the digital cryptocurrency, bitcoin. it has raised its sheer importance in the digital world by holding its critical character traits of decentralization, immutability, anonymity, and suitability for the e-money transaction process. there are primarily four types of blockchains to be considered. the sender account holds sufficient bitcoin balance that it intends to transfer. the amount intended to transfer has not already been sent to some other recipient. for example, let us consider someone is trying to send you some digital currency such as bitcoin, as the transaction is being processed, the private key in your wallet should match the crucial public address of your wallet that the currency has been assigned to. if both these keys match, then the digital currency amount is transferred to the public address of your wallet. main data: blocks will contain transaction data. this transaction data depends on the usage factor of blockchain, that is, the relevant services for which the blockchain is implemented. for financial institutions like banks, financial transaction data will be stored. timestamp: the timestamp will also exist in the blocks. here, the timestamp refers to the date and time when a particular block is generated. changing the input slightly changes the hash output wildly. there is no rule on how these changes occur and appear to be random. nevertheless, it is nothing but random. still, no one yet has come up with a solution to crack the rules behind how changes if the input is changed. the hash algorithm is made in such a way that it is not reversible. proof of work checks if the hash value of the block is in a specified range. if the value is in range then the block is accepted else rejected. miners compete with each other in the pow concept to mine blocks, which means to find a hash value of a block in a specified range. miners receive it and try to solve the mathematical problem, which is called hashing. now the malicious miner can solve the mathematical problem and create an offspring block without broadcasting the block to the network. the illegitimate chain slowly gets longer as the attacker will add more blocks in its chain. the attacker will broadcast this chain to the network. in the us, similar feelings were expressed and funding for infectious disease fellowships began to decline with federal resources being directed elsewhere. the development of the microscope by leeuwenhoek in the 1600s allowed scientists to visualize micro-organisms for the first time. the 1800s brought knowledge of the cultivation and identification of micro-organisms. vaccines were developed and used which introduced specific methods to our storehouse of measures for control and prevention. pasteurization was another important contribution to disease control. an appreciation of the environment and its relationship to infectious diseases resulted in implementation of broad control measures such as community sanitation, personal hygiene, and public health education. the importance of nutrition was appreciated for its impact on infectious diseases. the events of the last several decades demonstrate that our infectious disease guard cannot be reduced. we are making progress in controlling and preventing infectious diseases but we must not become complacent. the infectious disease papers in this edition of the journal amply portray the continuing impact that infectious disease has on the world. they also demonstrate how new research can be important in defining new methods of control and prevention. as we focus on the problems of emerging and re-emerging infectious diseases, we must not underplay other diseases and health conditions that also significantly impact on all of us. with finite limits on our resources for disease control and prevention, we must learn how to better use these resources. better planning, more attention to training, improved efficiency, and strengthening the collaboration and co-operation between countries will help in our efforts to reduce the burden of disease. just like feminism itself, feminist media theory and research is diverse and heterogeneous as well. since we live in a mediated world, and gender is a mediated experience, feminist scholarship has paid careful attention to media forms, especially since the 1970s and onward. while the study of media from a feminist theoretical perspective is vast and varied, early on most attention was paid to matters of representation and gender ideology. representation has long interested media scholars, who have argued that media forms, factual or fictional, send important messages to the public about different groups. promotion of social change, however, does not diminish feminist scholarship. quite the contrary, as shown in the chapters in the third part of this book, it is one of the main strengths of this kind of work. also, it is where important inroads have been made in recent years and where new challenges arise. feminist theory is a broad theoretical perspective, one that serves as connective tissue binding raw data and observation with critical thought about gender and identities. it explains gender inequality, power, and patriarchy, focusing on the ways gender and power influence our world, from the material to the symbolic ways gender plays a role in our lives. while feminism has at times been called out for its narrowness and white centrism, contemporary feminist theory is more often attuned to subordination and dominance that goes beyond gender and considers multiple and intersectional identities. the mass media as constituting the symbolic annihilation of women. over the years, feminist communication scholars have published in mainstream communication journals, as well as both authored and edited books too numerous to count. even my own work has become increasingly data-driven in that the projects i have taken up have expanded in scope and volume, something that has required the management of information, typically using spreadsheets and requiring the coding and counting of data. while embracing an empirical feminist scholarly identity, i have maintained a theoretical home in the critical paradigm where concerns about inequality are central and where scholarship is committed to enabling social change, thereby fulfilling the emancipatory potential of research. the years i spent in grassroots feminist activism before undertaking graduate studies in the 1980s honed a commitment to social transformation through struggle, something that has played itself out in my research both in the kind of problems that i have examined and the kind of theories that i have sought and tried to build and name. i have tried to respond to my own expectations beginning about twelve years ago by making a few modest forays into the exercise of theory building. one focus of my scholarship has always been on the impact of feminist struggle, something that occupied so much of my own energy and time during the 1970s and 1980s. a feminist who turned her training in journalism to serve anti-violence, equal pay, and other campaigns in those years, i wrote press releases, trained volunteers to give interviews, and developed press packets for reporters friendly to the issues we were supporting. i entered academic life in the late 1980s wondering how to assess and explain the impact of our movement work, particularly the efforts by women to make the news more responsive to feminism. though it was first applied primarily to entertainment media, media scholars have since applied the theoretical framework of symbolic annihilation to news coverage as well. that is also the focus of this chapter and the basis for our theoretical argument. as discussed above, the theory of symbolic annihilation was developed in the united states and is rooted in the western cultural assumptions of individualism, democratic participation, and a desire for parity between the genders. it is also understood that media are generally valued, transmit social values to the population, and to some degree, reflect social realities. but does it make sense to apply this theory in non-western societies, particularly to qatar? we then asked how we could apply a theory so rooted in notions of modernity and western progressive liberal thought in the arab gulf without engaging in an orientalist and condescending characterization of the region. again, we had to strip from our argument the values imbued by the fundamental assumptions of theory and refrain from looking at the gulf societies as existing on a timeline that should usher them through to a state of western-defined modernity. instead, we must address state policies and cultural values on their own terms, as defined by the society in question. we gauge our success here by the in-depth analysis we provided into qatar policy and cultural practice. symbolic annihilation theorized the relationship between the discursive representation of women and their material reality as mutually constitutive, but our deeply contextualized analysis reveals a more nuanced reality. qatari women are, by and large, not represented visually in the local news media, yet they do participate in increasing numbers in the workforce. in this context, however, there is no expectation that qatari women would be visually represented in the media due to the cultural taboo against it, so their absence is not constitutive of the material reality as it would be in a society that carried an expectation of equal representation of genders in the media. in considering mediated representations of female sexuality, then, it becomes crucial to carefully consider the contexts and conditions of production and reception. structures of gender, class, race, nation, and other social and political power hierarchies radically inflect the impact and implications of sexual representation in the media. dead-naming describes the practice of referring to trans people by their birth names and not chosen names. overall, the economic relations on a global level ought to be questioned so that, rather than adding women to the already existing and highly problematic models of sport, feminist sports media scholarship works toward gender-justice. however, sensationalist journalism and its critics are not enough to understand the media coverage and the comments online about symbolic violence in our southern cone digital public sphere; it is a universe that produces and reinforces gender inequities, configuring a parallel universe that hosts symbolic violence as well. there are stable structures, registered in our bodies and in digital narratives that emerge in both the impersonation and anonymity of digital southern spaces. as such, it seems there is no public conversation at all in these public spaces. december 2012, new delhi, india several men in a bus raped a 23-year- old woman, assaulted her and her friend, and abandoned them by the side of the road. ten days later, the rape victim died of her injuries. people across india protested the rape and state inaction; they organized candlelight vigils and demonstrations even as the police wielded tear gas and water cannons to shut down the protests. the rape and the protests were covered extensively by indian and international media. this moment became pivotal in opening the space for a wide-ranging discussion of the social, political, and institutional factors underpinning gender-based violence. despite the differences, news coverage of the two instances shared some commonalities. both india and south africa are identified as countries with high incidences of sexual violence. news media, nevertheless, presented each of these instances of gang rape as exceptional and unique. i interrogate the cultural work conducted by such a narrative of exceptionalism and elaborate on feminist media criticism of this practice. i contend that by covering brutal instances of sexual assault and presenting them as exceptional, news coverage ends up undermining the goals of feminist activism that they seem to uphold. this paradoxical approach by news media is not new but has been amplified by digital media flows and has necessitated new tactics from feminists to combat gender-based violence. i map these toward the conclusion of the chapter. in the following, i will provide a brief history of feminisms in turkey and in the united states to provide a background for comparison. i will give more space to the history of feminism in turkey on the assumption that the readers will be less familiar with it. to that end, after first reviewing the development and theorization of feminism in the academy, we mention several overlapping and important ways in which feminist scholars in communication and media studies have directed some specific efforts at intervention, with the ambition of producing research that leads to policy change or reform or that returns knowledge to the communities that were researched. then we describe and evaluate our own efforts to that end, detailing our experiences with setting up an intervention to help middle and early high school girls learn online skills. we conclude with some observations about how or how well the academic triangle of research, teaching and service can accommodate interventionist ambitions, especially for tenure-track feminist media and communication scholars at american universities. the maryland pilot semester setting up the program with a team of seven wikid grrls teachers and researchers had both rewarding and challenging moments. in maryland, we worked with a private school, two public middle schools, and one public high school. all four schools were enthusiastic about partnering with us but two had limited resources. the private school had high tech equipment, a beautiful, newly built sunlit room, and an assigned liaison teacher. in contrast, at another school, the classroom we used was dimly lit, without any equipment to play sound or a video projector; the teacher was dedicated but overworked, with little time to assist. we quickly learned we needed to adapt our curriculum to low tech and high tech schools, to make exercises workable without videos or loud speakers. schools frequently also required seeing in advance any website links we might use; schools often blocked certain websites. but the question remains whether or how interventions such as this one need to fit neatly into this triangle, in which research, at least at research- oriented higher education institutions, carries more weight than teaching and service. moreover, notwithstanding differences among departments and institutions, research still tends to be judged by quantity and prestige of publications, not the energy, organization, and depth it demands from a researcher or even its impact beyond number of citations. will projects that continue for several years but only yield a few peer-reviewed published journal articles be just as valued as several publications another scholar might generate within the same time frame using other approaches and methods? in sum, can a tenure-track faculty member afford to conduct such a study or does it constitute too much of a risk long-term seen through the lens of the tenure-clock rather than through the lens of the feminist activist? while it may seem at first as though female broadcasters in these regional or rural areas were not required to have the talent of their counterparts on the coasts, this was not always the case: if they did not form a bond or establish camaraderie with their audience, they may have soon been taken off the air. postcolonial and transnational context within which knowledge and power intersect via representational practices. the field of feminist cultural and media studies is still wide open for scholarly inquiries that bring into light the linkages between systems of representations and the circulation of labor, capital, and commodities. in other words, although it is crucial to interrogate representational practices in the age of global media, it is also essential to investigate the unequal cultural, political, and economic transactions that take place within the context of a network of transnational ties and exchanges. some of the major consumers of war rugs are military service members as well as carpet collectors. if the house is a site of military defense, as it has been depicted in war literature in the united states, the oriental carpet is a permanent reminder of gardens not touched by war. however, war carpets have changed this equation by making the home both a site of defense and a place of offense. in both cases, consumers are pushed into withdrawal and separation. while the labor in the war zone is trapped in the war zone or refugee camps, the war carpet has become mobile, creating a sense of being at home yet removed from the war in the everyday zones of empire. war, along with the free circulation of commodities, formally and informally opens up space for neoliberal policies including denying access to credit, neglecting infrastructure, abandoning technical training or any form of technological development, feminizing labor, and transferring commodities to the vulnerable spaces of war zones and refugee camps. neoliberal governmentality also involves what i call feel-good consumerism. this form of consumerism has diminished if not concealed the violence of war and militarism in the areas where commodities can be produced far more cheaply than anywhere else without any profitable return for the small producers. war carpets turn the tragic moment of war into the pleasurable moment of consumption. the aestheticization and fetishization of war carpets reflect the memory of war along with feminized labor, its disavowal, and its ongoing daily life in the sites of production, in the fragments of empire, war zones, refugee camps, remote villages, and so on. the aesthetics invested in collecting, exhibiting, selling, and buying the carpets are, in my view, rather anaesthetic, since they avoid the shock and trauma of war by domesticating its effects while internalizing them as guilt. indeed, since the 1980s, war carpets have become a silent form of the cultural repression of war. when it comes to dealing with the ever-evolving landscape of cyber threats, the intersection of ai and cybersecurity becomes crucial. the writing features the ascent of man-made intelligence driven cyberattacks, utilizing artificial intelligence's hostile capacities to send off greater and quicker strikes. as cybercriminals persistently develop their strategies, the basic for scientists, policymakers, and industry experts to outfit man-made intelligence for safeguard becomes obvious. to counter artificial intelligence driven attacks, this survey advocates for the improvement of cutting edge simulated intelligence structures. these frameworks will not only be able to identify and respond to current threats, but they will also serve as the basis for a proactive defense strategy against the ever-changing cyber threat landscape. this writing survey plans to direct future exploration and practices in strengthening digital frameworks against the tireless and versatile nature of digital enemies. phishing attacks: ai-powered systems succeed in distinguishing phishing attempts by dissecting email content, user behavior, and organization traffic to recognize dubious correspondence designs characteristic of phishing efforts. insider threats: by checking and analyzing client activities and access patterns, artificial intelligence frameworks can recognize oddities in conduct, hailing potential insider dangers like unapproved access or data exfiltration. machine learning models play a crucial role in improving threat detection capabilities. random forest support: equipped for dealing with huge datasets and complex connections, making it compelling in recognizing different kinds of dangers. autoencoders: neural network-based models utilized for dimensionality decrease and oddity location by remaking input information, hailing cases that go amiss altogether from the standard. persistent learning is a critical advantage of consolidating artificial intelligence, as these frameworks develop over the long run, working on their capacity to recognize and answer arising dangers. while computer-based intelligence enables smooth-running routine undertakings, human oversight stays critical for key direction, strategy refinement, and tending to refined parts of network protection occurrences. in general, the collaboration among artificial intelligence and human skill makes a stronger and adaptive incident reaction system despite facing developing cyber dangers. potential biases in ai models: possible predispositions in man-made intelligence models present basic worries inside cybersecurity, affecting the decency, precision, and unwavering quality of danger identification and reaction frameworks. these predispositions can rise up out of different sources, including slanted preparing information, algorithmic plan decisions, or intrinsic cultural predispositions implanted in datasets. information inclination, coming from unrepresentative or slanted datasets, can propagate and support existing cultural biases. in cybersecurity, one-sided datasets could prompt overrepresentation or underrepresentation of specific danger types, bringing about slanted risk evaluations and possibly ignoring explicit dangers. machine learning has become one of the mainstays of information technology and with that, a rather central, albeit usually hidden, part of our life. with the ever increasing amounts of data becoming available there is a good reason to believe that smart data analysis will become even more pervasive as a necessary ingredient for technological progress. data mining and machine learning are siamese twins from which several insights can be derived through proper learning algorithms. there has been tremendous progress in data mining and machine learning as a result of evolution of smart and nano technology which brought about curiosity in finding hidden patterns in data to derive value. the fusion of statistics, machine learning, information theory, and computing has created a solid science, with a firm mathematical base, and with very powerful tools. machine learning algorithms are organized into a taxonomy based on the desired outcome of the algorithm. supervised learning generates a function that maps inputs to desired outputs. providing partial nodes ordering, that is, declare that a node appears earlier than another node in the ordering. finally, decision trees and nb generally have different operational profiles, when one is very accurate the other is not and vice versa. on the contrary, decision trees and rule classifiers have a similar operational profile. svm and ann have also a similar operational profile. no single learning algorithm can uniformly outperform other algorithms over all datasets. this work recommends that for large data sets, a distributed processing environment should be considered. this will create room for high level of correlation among the variables which will ultimately make the output of the model more efficient. in effect, npt and yp forwarded different storylines, different narratives and counter-narratives, on who was to blame for the original stabbings. was it the perpetrating students, the violence-prone officers, or systemic forces, like concentrated poverty? these groups work with the same bronx constituencies, and they share strikingly similar missions of community power and school reform. still, they pursued very different strategies, some of which sidelined issues of race, and others of which tackled them head on, with positive results. racism is commonplace, and colorblind conceptions of equality will only address the most egregious forms of individual-based racism, rather than structural inequalities between social groups. though some of the organizers hail from middle-class backgrounds, almost all of the interviewees were poor or working class. the exact gender breakdowns of the membership pools were not available. based on my observations, however, fathers were rarely present at meetings at most of the organizations, though they sometimes attended larger rallies. yp was an exception, as the youth constituency is fairly evenly split between males and females. my presence and trusted me more, they began to open up and share many of the stories that, collectively, form the sorts of counter-narratives essential to crt praxis. this study engaged in several iterations of fieldwork, data analysis, triangulation and data verification, to articulate findings that foregrounded the voices of the participants themselves. throughout this article, the names of all fieldwork participants and case study organizations have been changed for confidentiality reasons. because the five education organizing groups look so similar on paper and via the popular media, advocacy groups or research centers often name them together in policy reports. a careful analysis from a crt perspective, however, allows us to delve into the nitty gritty negotiations and contradictions of their everyday practices. the following sections use key tenets of crt to examine, first, why surfacing counter-narratives is so difficult even in education organizing groups, and second, what practices help these groups to grapple with complex issues of race. as long as no overtly racist acts are committed, issues of race remain unexamined, and institutional racism ignored. in turn, school reform is best achieved by rallying everyone together, downplaying any patterns of inequality that might exist amongst the supporters. carol also repeatedly spoke to monolingual spanish speakers in english, and sometimes went on in her instructions without allowing for them to be translated. we watched videotapes carol had brought with her, one of which discussed adult sexual relationships in the african-american community. there were repeated requests from the rest of the bus for something appropriate for children. this story highlights some of the ways in which surfacing counter-narratives remains difficult in education organizing groups. first, organizers and leaders must overcome language barriers. second, they also fear that any critiques of racial divides will be construed as racist, or as detracting from the larger mission of the organization. they are, after all, in the same boat, trying to fight even more formidable forces of disenfranchisement from outside the organization. in order for education organizing groups to truly engage in anti-racist views of school reform, they need to build community power without resorting to short-term strategies of interest convergence. this section attempts to draw lessons by focusing on the third and fourth key tenets of crt, regarding the social construction of race and unique voices of color, which are inextricably intertwined. the hardest part of realizing equitable education is addressing a core tension between these two tenets. how are the case study groups supposed to allow counter-narratives to emerge, when they want to pursue campaigns as united fronts? all five case study organizations are careful to provide subgroups with the organizational bonding space to meet freely, develop their own campaigns, and recruit new members; these subgroups meet with organizers who speak their language, and meetings are scheduled to accommodate members. the bonding spaces can be seen as places where leaders are given the means to voice their struggles and experiences. from the perspective of crt, members of cc never received the chance to articulate the social construction of race, partly because the unique voices of members from different subgroups were never communicated to the entire organization. critical race theorists might argue that, instead of fearing that conversations about race would split the groups in half, that surfacing counternarratives would show members how race is socially constructed and, in turn, how to tackle issues of race. the second pattern that emerges involves existing, but limited, bridging spaces. in these cases, translation is consistently used and subgroups meet regularly with one another, but issues of race are rarely broached. another fnn leader, nicole, noted that official rules dictate that organizers remain silent, with the intention that opinions and campaign ideas are truly generated by the constituents. yet, this silence can be an artifice; organizers hold opinions and can easily manipulate discussions so that the group comes to a similar decision. over time, bridging spaces allow leaders to address issues of race in positive ways. all leaders are bound by campaign issues and troubled schools, like those at the other case study organizations, but they also share books like autobiography of malcolm x, poems used at meetings, and downloaded music files. such cultural objects are rarely race-neutral, and the youth treat such racial identifiers as positive tools for exchange. because stories are so intensely personalized and interdependence is so emphasized, members are comfortable with conversations about race, without feeling as if they are defined solely in terms of race. crt has, from the beginning, called for action, and education organizing seemed to be the means to achieve it. yet, education organizing groups construct visions of alternative pedagogy and education policy in drastically different ways. crt demands that their everyday practices match their rhetoric for social change. far from being overly pessimistic, this emphasis on process, rather than charismatic or visionary individuals, lends room for social change in all five case study organizations. the next section explores the more well-known body of crt scholarship, which is associated with a branch of legal studies that emerged during the civil rights movement in the united states. hegemony: the dominance or power of one cultural group over another. this dominance is not necessarily maintained by force; it is also supported through the consent of the subordinate group, in that the members of the subordinate group begin to accept, adopt, and internalize the values and norms of the dominant group. a more in-depth discussion of the concept of hegemony can be found in chapter 2, on the work of antonio gramsci. because of hegemony, whiteness is both resisted and reproduced by nonwhite people in a way that leads them to enact double consciousness. that addresses methodological issues in using crt constructs to conduct educational research as well as pedagogical strategies for using crt in real classroom settings. another crt construct stovall employs is voice. he does so by privileging the experiential knowledge of his students and allowing them to use their real-world racialized experiences as the starting point for discussions about race. while this technique seems logical, stovall points out that oftentimes educators inadvertently privilege the dense theoretical readings on race in an attempt to help students understand the complexities and nuances of the concept. instead, stovall states that although he uses these theoretical texts in his syllabus, they serve as a reference rather than a focal point. by allowing the students to enter the discussion at a point where they are most comfortable expressing their knowledge, stovall is not only summoning a principle of crt but also, perhaps more notably, exhibiting his keen understanding of how students learn. combination therapies may dramatically improve the outcome for cancer patients, and indeed it is expected that such therapies will eventually become the standard of care for cancer treatment, but the discovery of effective combinations is a challenging endeavor. with nearly 200 molecules approved by the fda for the treatment of cancer, including over 15 immunotherapy agents, experimentally testing every possible combination of these drugs would be unfeasible, even with high-throughput experimental methods and a mechanistic basis for the selection of agents with complementary moas that target multiple mechanisms of resistance and immune escape. therefore, new systems approaches are needed to reduce the search space and prioritize combinations for experimental testing. in addition, immunotherapies have unique properties that complicate their clinical development, and are magnified in the context of combination therapies. the regulatory environment is also evolving, particularly for novel agents including cell-based therapies, for which many of the traditional development paradigms are not applicable. combination immunotherapy is the future of cancer treatment and its success is dependent on addressing each of these challenges during development in order to provide the most beneficial treatment to patients. the proliferation of interconnected systems and the rapid digitization of critical infrastructures have significantly expanded the attack surface for cyber adversaries. consequently, traditional cybersecurity measures often fall short in thwarting the intricately orchestrated attacks orchestrated by malicious actors. against this backdrop, the integration of ai presents a paradigm shift, offering advanced capabilities in the proactive identification, detection, and mitigation of cyber threats. ai- powered systems hold the promise of adaptive intelligence, capable of learning from vast datasets and swiftly responding to novel and complex cyber threats that evade conventional security measures. this study aims to scrutinize the multifaceted dimensions of ai's application within the realm of cybersecurity. it seeks to explore the efficacy of ai models, algorithms, and technologies in fortifying cyber defenses by enabling proactive threat identification and response mechanisms. moreover, it aims to evaluate the resilience of ai-integrated systems in dynamically adapting to the constantly mutating nature of cyber threats, highlighting their pivotal role in reinforcing the security posture of organizations, networks, and critical infrastructures. by examining the evolving interplay between ai and cybersecurity, this research endeavors to provide nuanced insights into the transformative potential of ai-driven approaches in ameliorating cyber resilience. the findings aim to contribute to a deeper understanding of how ai can serve as a cornerstone in mitigating emerging cyber risks and fortifying the resilience of digital ecosystems in the face of escalating cyber threats. the literature showcases a burgeoning synergy between ai and cybersecurity, underscoring ai's instrumental role in fortifying cyber resilience. while ai presents innovative solutions to combat evolving threats, addressing ethical implications and ensuring the adaptability of ai systems remain imperative in realizing their full potential in safeguarding digital ecosystems against sophisticated cyber adversaries. the initial phase of this research involves an extensive review of scholarly literature, encompassing articles, journals, and conference proceedings focusing on ai's integration into cybersecurity. this literature review serves as the foundation for developing a theoretical framework that guides the exploration of ai's efficacy in enhancing cyber defenses. the evaluation phase scrutinizes various ai models, algorithms, and technologies utilized in cybersecurity. emphasis is placed on assessing their roles in threat identification, response, and the development of adaptive defenses. case studies, simulations, or sandbox environments are utilized to assess the practical effectiveness of ai-integrated cybersecurity systems in mitigating a spectrum of cyber threats. ethical considerations remain paramount throughout the research process, ensuring compliance with ethical guidelines concerning biases, data privacy, transparency, and accountability. measures are taken to seek informed consent from participants and uphold ethical standards in data handling and reporting. validity and reliability are ensured through triangulation of data sources, member checking, and cross-validation of findings obtained through diverse methodologies. the research outcomes are interpreted to draw meaningful conclusions about ai's impact on cybersecurity resilience, offering recommendations for practice and highlighting directions for future research. this methodological approach aims to provide a comprehensive and robust analysis of ai's role in cybersecurity, contributing nuanced insights into its transformative potential in fortifying cyber resilience against emerging threats. overview of ai-integrated cybersecurity solutions: the investigation involved a comprehensive analysis of various ai-driven cybersecurity solutions utilized in contemporary settings. the review encompassed diverse ai models, algorithms, and technologies employed for threat detection, response, and adaptive defenses. these solutions ranged from machine learning-based anomaly detection to ai-powered threat intelligence platforms. qualitative insights from expert perspectives: interviews, surveys, and focus group discussions with cybersecurity professionals and ai experts provided qualitative insights. their perspectives offered valuable observations on the practical implications, challenges, and opportunities associated with ai in cybersecurity. themes regarding the adaptability, ethical considerations, and future prospects of ai-driven cybersecurity solutions emerged from these qualitative analyses. adaptability to dynamic threat landscapes: an evaluation of the adaptability of ai-integrated cybersecurity solutions to dynamic threat landscapes was conducted. case studies and simulations were employed to simulate real-world cyber incidents and assess the systems' abilities to respond to novel attack vectors and emerging threats. ethical considerations and challenges: the exploration of ai in cybersecurity also encompassed an examination of ethical considerations. biases in ai algorithms, privacy concerns, transparency, and accountability emerged as significant challenges that need to be addressed for responsible deployment of ai-driven cybersecurity solutions. comparative analysis and recommendations: a comparative analysis was undertaken to juxtapose the strengths and limitations of ai-powered cybersecurity systems against conventional approaches. recommendations for practice and future research were formulated based on the synthesized findings and insights gleaned from the study. ai models and algorithms revealed their adaptability in addressing the dynamic nature of cyber threats, displaying promising capabilities in swiftly adapting to novel attack vectors. furthermore, the qualitative insights gleaned from cybersecurity professionals and ai experts emphasized the importance of ai's integration in augmenting cyber defenses. the perspectives highlighted the necessity of ai-driven adaptive defenses, emphasizing their role in complementing traditional security measures and significantly reducing response times to cyber incidents. however, amidst the promise and potential, challenges and ethical considerations persist. concerns surrounding biases in ai algorithms, data privacy, transparency, and accountability necessitate cautious deployment and continuous refinement of ai-integrated cybersecurity solutions. additionally, the dynamic landscape of cyber threats mandates continual advancements in ai technologies to stay ahead of adversaries. this research serves as a beacon illuminating the transformative impact of ai on cybersecurity resilience. the insights gleaned from this study offer practical implications for organizations, policymakers, and practitioners engaged in fortifying cyber defenses. leveraging ai-driven methodologies presents an opportunity to build adaptive and resilient cybersecurity infrastructures capable of mitigating emerging threats and safeguarding digital ecosystems. in conclusion, the synergistic relationship between ai and cybersecurity holds immense promise in navigating the complex and ever-evolving cyber threat landscape. while challenges persist, the findings underscore the imperative need to harness the transformative potential of ai in fortifying cyber resilience and shaping the future of cybersecurity defense mechanisms. continued research and collaborative efforts are crucial to further harness ai's capabilities and pave the way for a more secure digital future. the findings and insights presented in this research pave the way for several promising avenues for future exploration at the intersection of ai and cybersecurity. firstly, further research endeavors could focus on advancing ai technologies to enhance their robustness in addressing ethical concerns such as biases, interpretability, and privacy within cybersecurity applications. additionally, exploring the synergy between ai and emerging technologies, such as quantum computing and blockchain, could offer novel approaches to fortify cyber defenses against unprecedented threats. longitudinal studies tracking the evolution of ai-integrated cybersecurity solutions and their adaptability to evolving threat landscapes would provide valuable insights into their long-term efficacy. moreover, collaborative interdisciplinary studies involving experts from cybersecurity, ai, ethics, and policy domains could facilitate the development of comprehensive frameworks and guidelines for responsible and effective utilization of ai in fortifying cyber resilience. finally, examining the socio-economic implications and global governance frameworks concerning ai-driven cybersecurity solutions would contribute to a holistic understanding and effective deployment of these transformative technologies in safeguarding digital ecosystems. despite the existence of several tools in the security space, attack detection is still a challenging task. often, attackers adapt themselves to newer security systems and find new ways past them. this section describes some challenges in detecting cybersecurity attacks. can be customized to work with multiple traditional sensors collecting and sending information to the ccs module as rdf data supported by the uco schema for further processing. the experimental implementation included process monitoring and file monitoring agents and a snort agent as described below. file monitoring agent: a custom file monitor is attached to an ia module that is similar to a process monitoring agent and also runs on all host machines aggregating various file-related statistics. to avoid monitoring all files and directories, we maintain a list of sensitive ones when detecting suspicious files. suspicious files are new files created or modified by a new process, large files that are downloaded from the internet or files copied from mass storage devices. information sent to the ccs module includes the process that modified the file, size, how it was created, and other file meta-data. the file monitoring agent is implemented in python using the watchdog observer library that allows us to monitor all file operations on sensitive directories. similar to the processing monitoring agent, it converts the file operation information to an rdf representation and reports them to the ccs module. we tested the effectiveness of our system with a concrete use case of a ransomware attack. we describe the custom ransomware attack designed for the use case scenario, the network topology used in the test, the series of steps taken by the cognitive assistant while detecting the attack, and our evaluation of our cognitive assistant. ccs master machine: the core detection techniques are installed on the ccs master machine, which runs the two major components. the first is a fuseki server loaded with jena, a standard owl dl reasoner, the modified uco ontology and related swrl rules. the second is the ccs module, which extracts new information about host machine activities and possible new attacks, runs the analysis, and dynamically updates the ccs dashboard. in addition, we run snort and a snort agent in this machine, though snort can also be run on another machine since the snort agent will take care of sending its information to the ccs master module. we implemented the associated modules of ccs and created a network described in section vi-b. our next goal is to check if we can detect the ransomware attack or not. our knowl- edge graph is updated with common knowledge, including the cyber-kill chain and knowledge mentioned in section iv about cyber-attacks. we demonstrate that even such simple information could be used for detecting newer attacks using this experimental system. figure 6 shows the timeline of the attack performed and the actions from our ccs module. each step in it is detailed below. we also developed a proof of concept ccs system which features a cognitive dashboard where cybersecurity events are reported to the security analysts. the capability of our system is demonstrated by testing it against a custom built ransomware, that uses the smb vulnerability to infect victims similar to the infamous wannacry ransomware. our technique reduces the cognitive load on the analyst to interpret complex events occurring in large enterprises by fusing information from multiple sources and reasoning over it much like a human analyst. adding to the challenge are competitive race dynamics: companies competing in markets have an incentive to build ai faster than their competitors, and as the above examples show, assuring the safety of large-scale machine learning-driven systems appears to be both costly and difficult; slowing that process down while encouraging an environment for investment to ensure safe development is a collective action problem that regulation is needed to address. a key distinction between regulatory markets and self-regulation is that in regulatory markets the overall outcomes that must be achieved by regulation are determined by the government and not the regulated entity itself. governments in this regime design and oversee the structure of the regulatory market and regulate the entities within it. a central goal of our proposal for regulatory markets is to develop a framework of oversight and public accountability for private regulation. we propose a method for harnessing the power of markets to develop more agile and technically sophisticated forms of regulation that does not require defaulting to self-regulation. instead, our approach is to create a new market layer of independent private regulators who are subject to government oversight while simultaneously responsive to the on-the-ground realities of fast-moving, complex, and global ai technologies. policy labs within government engage civil servants directly with the techniques of human-centered design and data analytics to develop new methods of regulation and public service delivery. tification services and so there is some scope within which we can think of these organizations as competing. but the nature of this competition is that the standards bodies compete to be adopted voluntarily by a large enough segment of a relevant industry that they become the de facto global standard. thus they are not competitive markets in the full sense. moreover, once the competition is resolved in a given domain, there is the potential for stagnation. continuing competition is key to driving innovation. increasing the ability to generate innovative regulatory approaches is likely to require moving more of the problem of regulation out of the domain of the public sector and into the domain of markets: creating markets for regulation that attract investments of human and financial capital in regulatory innovation. we propose the following model of regulatory markets, building on new governance models that incorporate non-governmental regulators and changing roles for private entities. private regulators could employ, but would not be limited to, conventional means of regulation; the private regulator might also develop technologies that directly control or shape the business decisions of the targets it regulates. they would gain their authority to regulate via the regulatory contract with the target and authorization from governments to collect fines or impose requirements on the targets that submit to their regulatory system. regulatory techniques developed by private regulators might include hardware, risk assessment tools, information processing systems, conflict or complaint management procedures, and so on. in the self-driving car context, governments could set thresholds for accident rates or traffic congestion. they could establish principles such as maintaining public confidence in road safety. in the banking industry, governments could set thresholds for access to credit by consumers. they could establish principles such as traceability of transactions and maintenance of confidence in the stability of financial markets. in the context of facial recognition use in drones, governments might establish thresholds for the likelihood that software could be accessed by malicious users. they could establish principles such as realistic consumer consent to recognition. regulatory systems to ensure that ai systems remain safe and beneficial. we will almost certainly, for example, need ai to assist in monitoring and regulating ai systems. the only way to get robust and durable investments in building regulatory ai is by creating a market incentive: rewarding such investments with the achievement of profit and personal mission. another benefit of the regulatory markets model is that it fosters the development of a robust and independent regulatory sector. this can help balance the growing power of the large tech companies that are at the forefront of ai development. it creates a middle option between the unsatisfactory choice between government-led regulation on the one hand and tech company self-regulation on the other. private regulators may be able to govern data more effectively. currently, a critical constraint on government regulation is that sharing data with governments creates the real and perceived risk of the misuse of data by governments. commercial entities, on the other hand, are able to engage in more robust data-sharing arrangements, governed by contract and intellectual property rights. this would allow private regulators to engage in more direct monitoring of data held within target companies, and creates the possibility for more creative technological integration between regulator and target. regulatory markets come with risks around the challenge of ensuring that private regulators are competitive and independent of the entities they regulate. finally, although an important benefit of multi-jurisdictional regulators is that less-wealthy jurisdic- tions can free-ride on the regulatory oversight of wealthier ones, a general free-riding problem could result in governments as a whole under-investing in oversight. however, any regulatory scheme requires adequate oversight by governments. the insufficiency of faa oversight practices is a cautionary tale for our regulatory markets proposal, emphasizing the need for a sustainable funding model that accords with the true cost of regulation. under our proposal, at least some of this cost would be priced in the market as the cost of regulatory services, rather than being entirely dependent on the politics of taxation and government budgets. to demonstrate how regulatory markets might work in practice, we describe in this section a proto- type implementation to address a known risk in the ai domain: adversarial attacks on ai models. applying our model to the context of adversarial robustness we first define the relevant actors. private regulators would be required to apply for a license to supply adversarial robustness regulatory services in the commercial drone context from the government agency in any jurisdiction in which they wished to operate. if regulation happens at the city level, for example, then a private regulator would apply to individual cities for a license. cities could conceivably recognize licenses supplied by other cities. for example, if regulator a is licensed by los angeles, san francisco could accept that license. similarly, if regulator b is licensed by san francisco, los angeles might accept that license. targets wishing to supply or employ commercial drones in either city satisfy their regulatory requirement by purchasing regulatory services from either regulator a or regulator b. we envision that the license awarded for a private regulator might initially be narrow in scope, permitting, for example, only regulatory oversight of the adversarial vulnerability of deep learning models of a particular class in commercial drones. but a virtue of creating a market for regulation is that private regulators will have an incentive to expand their market access. this would play out through proposals made by regulators to government oversight agencies for an expanded license. regulators might seek to develop techniques to verify robustness in a broader set of deep learning models. they might seek to expand their remit beyond implementations in commercial drones. or they might seek to expand their regulatory capacity to other dimensions of the commercial drone business: developing standards for safe exploration by drones, for example. in addition to the negative effect documented above, an interesting question is whether judges respond differently to politicians who are holding office at the time of trial. since office-holding politicians yield more power compared to politicians seeking office because the former are effectively making policy decisions, a plausible hypothesis is that judges would target elected politicians more often. the ideal experiment to answer this question would be to randomly assign office across politicians involved in court cases and compare their outcomes. we would be able to compare how elected officials fare against non-elected officials and pin down the exact bias in favor or against office-holders. for ethical reasons, however, this is an unrealistic experiment, and the regression discontinuity design we adopt in this paper is its best approximation yet. attitude towards increasing resources available to the judicial branch. contrary to our expectation, however, the mechanism behind cooperation is not favorable decisions; in fact, state judges rule against politicians in low-salience small claims cases, signalling power, to buy cooperation from local politicians. since the turn of the century, china's housing market has thrived unprecedentedly, with housing property being integral to household assets due to the housing reform. while the housing market is booming, the stock market and other financial product markets in china witnessed a relative downturn. take shanghai stock exchange as an example, since the shanghai composite index tumbled from the summit of 6124 in 2007, it has remained at a low level for 5 years. the weak stock market made many families lose their interest in stocks, and some even quit the stock market once for all. the strong housing market and the weak stock market have sparked a fresh discussion. some believe that the unprecedented development of the housing market has placed a cap on other financial markets. does such crowding out play a part? precisely, how does housing influence household stockholding? from the empirical viewpoint, the results obtained with data from different countries may differ. even when different data from the same country is used, the results may be different. because for chinese residents, even though the proportion of housing in net assets stays the same, their attitude towards stock investment is different when the specific property value changes. thus, the cost of housing investment is taken as an explanatory variable, rather than the proportion of the cost of housing investment in the total investment cost. in this model, the housing investment cost is the explanatory variable, whether the household participates in the stock market is a response variable, with the other being the proportion of the stock investment cost to the total investment cost. because the household investment behavior does not always occur at the same time, but in order to simplify the model, this paper does not consider the above factors. that is, the housing investment cost is the nominal expense of the housing investment expenditure at that time, and the stock investment cost is the nominal expense of the stock investment expenditure at that time. the total investment cost is the sum of the nominal expense of each investment, which is not converted into the present value based on the inflation rate. among them, the definitions of financial literacy and risk attitude are particularly noteworthy. in table 1, we give descriptive statistics of the variables used in this paper. the average annual household income is 80,000 yuan, and the average value plus a standard deviation is 200,000 yuan, which indicates that the household income in the sample, namely, the annual income of property-owning urban residents is mostly within 200,000 yuan. the impact of housing investment on household stock market participation is examined first, followed by analyzing the impact of housing investment on the proportion of household stock assets in total investment assets. this paper applies the mathematical model above to the explanatory variable of housing investment and the control variables of housing investment profit, stock investment profit, education, financial literacy, age, square of age, gender, marriage, number of families, household income and household wealth, and obtains significant regression results. therefore, in terms of research methods, this paper conducts another probit and tobit regression for each kind of households. however, the probit regression results of stock market participation in risk averse families are not convergent, so this paper uses ols regression instead. both a correction parameter in the second stage and an additional variable of the equation estimate to correct the selectivity bias, and then make a heckman model estimate of the stock value. granted, after the heckman model test, the endogenous problem still cannot be completely eliminated. for example, some residents only buy houses for needs, not just for investment. contribution of housing investment to household stock market participation, it can be inferred that housing investment drives stock market investment and prompts more residents to hold stocks, but their attempts to invest in stocks often fail. even worse, the more they invest, the more they lose, so when they have new income, they will not invest or invest less in the stock market. age has a significant positive impact on the probability of household stock market participation and the proportion of stockholding, which may indicate that the middle-aged and elderly people are willing to try new ways of investment when their wealth is gradually accumulating. the regression results of residents with different risk attitudes also reflect these phenomena, which will not be discussed here. although probit and tobit regression have shown that higher housing investment is crowding out household stock investment, the above conclusion may be disturbed by some endogenous problems. in order to eliminate the interference, we tested it with heckman model. in this model, the third column also introduces the cross term of housing investment cost and financial literacy to study the joint effect of the two on the proportion of household stock investment. in table 3, we show the results of these regressions. the clinical scenario, which most typically represents a classical example of acute myocardial iri, is the patient presenting with an acute stemi, treated by either thrombolytic therapy or ppci. importantly, a therapeutic intervention applied to protect the heart against acute iri could also provide systemic organ-wide protection against acute iri, benefiting the post-cardiac arrest function of other vital organs such as the brain, kidney, and liver. clinical studies investigating novel cardioprotective strategies in the clinical setting of cpr are yet to be undertaken. it is essential that the design of the clinical cardioprotection study takes into consideration the findings of previously published preclinical and clinical studies. there currently exists no recognized effective therapeutic intervention for protecting the cardiomyocyte from the detrimental effects of either mvo or lethal myocardial reperfusion injury in acute mi patients. over the last two to three decades, a large number of therapeutic interventions have been investigated as adjuncts to myocardial reperfusion. however, the results from the majority of these studies have been largely disappointing in terms of finding an effective therapy for reducing myocardial reperfusion injury and improving clinical outcomes in stemi patients undergoing ppci. table 1 provides a summary of the major clinical studies which have failed to demonstrate any benefit in reperfused stemi patients, and highlights some of the potential reasons for their failure, many of which include not taking into account confounding factors to cardioprotection. often by concluding that the study is negative, thereby missing the opportunity for discovering new therapies for acute mi patients. for clinical cardioprotection trials investigating the mi-limiting effects of a study intervention, it is essential to assess for the major determinants of mi size in stemi patients undergoing myocardial reperfusion. the heterogeneity of patients undergoing cardiopulmonary bypass surgery and the number of confounding factors which can potentially interfere with cardioprotection make patient selection for clinical cardioprotection studies in cabg patients quite challenging. the type of surgery is clearly important, with patients undergoing cabg alone very different from patients undergoing valve surgery. for example, the myocardium of patients with severe aortic stenosis or aortic regurgitation may be significantly hypertrophied, the presence of which may impact on the cardioprotective effect of a study intervention. for patients undergoing cabg surgery, it must be acknowledged that direct injury to the myocardium during surgery can happen and may contribute to cardiac enzyme release; this has to be taken into account when interpreting the results. therefore, it may be advisable to select patients undergoing either cabg alone or valve surgery alone in a clinical cardioprotection study. when considering contemporary art, it can be difficult to define or describe any one common style. artists approach their work in a multitude of ways. a wide array of media and materials may be used to convey a wide array of concepts, themes, and subject matter. there is some debate about whether self-taught artists working in the present day could be considered modern artists and whether their work might be considered contemporary art. the general view is that, because these artists are self-taught and may be working outside the scope of trained artists, their products should not be designated as art. instead, some have taken to calling such art outsider art to denote that it was made by those outside of the field of art. worldwide, the conceptualization and implementation of digital marketing have come a long way from where it started its journey. in fact, after covid-19, the marketing fraternity has got molded into a new structure, and digital marketing is one of the most important pillars of that. brands nowadays can not think to sustain or scale without taking care of their digital presence. however, if you are still somewhat indecisive about availing of digital marketing services for your business in 2022, this article is going to help you for sure. here, we have discussed best practices in digital marketing and its future. also, in this article, we will talk about how digital marketing has evolved. before we get into the future of digital marketing, it's always better to know things from where they started. the term digital marketing was used for the first time in 1990 as 'archie', the first-ever search engine, started its journey. however, only three years after that, in 1993, the first clickable web-ad banner was introduced. with the availability of several social channels, digital marketing is a lot more than getting your website ranked at the top of serp. from resolving user queries and nurturing prospects on social media to establishing a compelling brand story for your audience, digital marketing has a massive role in running a successful business. from its very start, several digital trends have set the marketing strategy for brands across the globe. as we approach the future, many things have changed for digital marketing enthusiasts. here are the top 5 influential digital marketing trends that are here to stay for some time. gone are those days when we had to spend long hours on the toll-free ivr channels to get our queries about a particular product or service resolved. as part of user-centric digital marketing strategies, brands incorporate chatbots with websites powered by artificial intelligence that can promptly resolve common users' queries. not only resolving customer queries but ai is also getting used in advertising. though it still couldn't achieve the human level of creativity, google is already using ai to run advertisements. the ai can customize the campaign message as per available users' data to improve engagement and conversion. if you are using instagram to interact with your audience, you have probably seen the new shoppable posts feature on the social media platform. though it has not been long that instagram introduced this feature, it's already proving to be a great tool for businesses trying to improve conversions. especially if you are into e-commerce or running a b2c brand, these shoppable ads can be exclusively beneficial for your business. in fact, as per the latest stats from instagram, more than 130 million users have clicked on shoppable posts. previously, businesses have focused more on getting the top rank on serps for their user queries. thus, optimizing website content as per the search engine guidelines has remained the top priority for seos. however, with the introduction of the snippet preview, now it's not only about reaching the top spot for related keywords. video distribution platforms have surely created something revolutionary as far as content orchestration is concerned. starting from instagram reels to facebook and youtube stories, short video content is a great way to connect to your audience. as the famous quote says, 'a good picture is worth a thousand words; a video contains hundreds of those pictures. hence, it has the best potential for interacting with your audience. customers have power over your business and if they are unhappy your business could feel the effects. not only is the customer unlikely to return they could also share their negative experience with others which could stop them from buying from you. this article helps you to handle customer complaints quickly and efficiently so you can win over the customer and increase loyalty. customers complain for a number of reasons. one of the most common is that the business has not delivered to their expectations. other times the customer may themselves be at fault due to their own unrealistic expectations or confusion. you need to determine the best way to handle the situation so that the matter is dealt with whilst you maintain a strong, professional image. when the customer complains they want you to listen. customers who feel like their complaint is not being taken seriously are more likely to get agitated and could cause a scene. they may leave and take their custom elsewhere. in order to gain insight you should ask the customer questions and then listen attentively. the customer will feel that you care and feel more comfortable. customer complaints can sometimes be a blessing in disguise as they can help you identify issues which may not have noticed before. learn from your mistakes and take further steps to prevent the problem from re-occurring. taking feedback from the customer can make them feel part of your company and help you find solutions. other customers can also be asked for their feedback. it is an important aspect of our everyday lives. as a result, it is critical to reform the health care sector from time to time in order to improve revenue outcomes and customer service. accounting software is essential for keeping track of your pharmacy's finances. accounting software is a collection of computer applications designed to fulfill the unique requirements of every business's financial transactions and activities. it allows businesses to make better use of their accounting departments' resources and prevent expensive bookkeeping errors. the medical business has used health care accounting software to save time and reduce mistakes associated with manual data entry. apart from that, the software provides the following benefits. accounting software for independent pharmacies helps in automating essential calculations and administrative tasks. it plays a significant role in controlling the revenue framework. it allows you to manage your company's resources better and save money on extra aid for better financial management. accounting software helps business owners automatically manage their finances. there is no need for technical expertise. the pharmacist will be able to manage all accounting processes and maintain their budgets under control with minimal training. accuracy is one of the crucial parts for business owners looking for accounting software. accounting software reduces human errors by automating calculations and data entry. this will ensure that your pharmacy is error-free, increasing client trust and reducing medicine theft. accounting software comes with reporting feature that gives businesses reports on sales, transactions, customers, and more. through reports, you will be able to understand your financial condition and better plan your business strategies. it provides you with numbers that can help you figure out where to cut expenses or invest more. this way, you will develop smarter decision-making capability. pharmacists spend most of their working hours dispensing drugs, and this task requires lots of concentration with verification. with seamless accounting software, pharmacists can handle drug stocks and prescriptions efficiently, which leads to more and more benefits. with accurate management of drug inventory, prescriptions and customers' demand, the accounting software offers patients quick assistance. this will ultimately improve patients' health outcomes. accounting software helps pharmacists to get financial forecasting. with the software, you know your sales and purchase figures and can also analyze consumers' demand. this way, the business owner certainly wants to estimate their revenue and expenses correctly, eliminate unnecessary costs, and optimize profits. bank reconciliation is necessary to guarantee that your financial data is accurate. if done manually, it can be time-consuming and error-prone. on the other hand, advanced accounting software allows you to reconcile your bank accounts and statements in just one click. smart accounting systems are effectively providing system for purchase and sales. it enables businesses to handle transactions and generate a variety of documents, including purchase and sale orders, debit and credit notes, quotes, and receipts. as a pharmacist, you have enough knowledge to deal with demand in the market. on the other hand, accounting software allows for more accurate pharmacy management. most accounting software on the market has all-in-one accounting solutions and capabilities covering everything from sales to delivery. it handles everything from generating professional invoices to tracking staffing levels, documenting business costs, and managing payroll. the best pharmacy software provides crucial financial data to assist you in growing your pharmacy business. in the corporate world, the hr problems are not the same for every organization. hr professionals face different challenges, depending on the complexity of the challenge and the resources available to them. in addition to these, there are a variety of other issues that hr professionals must address, ranging from the need to adhere to local laws and regulations to the challenge of finding and training new employees. the following article will elaborate on the problems and provide you with strategies for addressing these issues in your own company. in spite of the critical job they play in financial and social turn of events, road merchants keep on being irritated by metropolitan authorities. they face supported strong expulsions, ceaseless seizure of their products, and the requesting of pay-offs by police authorities. these activities are characteristic of the harsh connection between the road merchants and nearby government in south africa. neighborhood monetary advancement is an interaction through which civil specialists, local area based associations, and nearby networks invigorate financial movement to make business. it includes expanding on the assets of a neighborhood. these incorporate human, capital and institutional assets. south africa's constitution orders regions to drive neighborhood social and financial turn of events. the order is sorted through in the white paper on local government and the municipal systems act . this really orders districts to manufacture connections that can assist them with working on the job of nearby networks. it additionally engages districts to utilize authoritative and different means to establish conditions that empower formal and casual organizations to flourish. it likewise directs that the turn of events, execution and requirement of neighborhood regulations and arrangements ought to follow a more sympathetic methodology, grounded on the upsides of the constitution. this requires an update of unbending and insensitive nearby regulations and strategies that miss the mark regarding the others conscious protected approach. specific applications are used to maintain cryptographic algorithms, which help to create cryptocurrency. the process of confirming and preserving the cryptographic units is called mining. it is the process of validating the entire transaction. bitcoin is one of the most known cryptocurrencies present in the world. blockchain has not only helped technology related to cryptocurrencies, but it has also helped metaverse to get access to permissionless services. so in a way, it can be said that when using cryptocurrencies, customers often require access to different internet spaces for which they will require metaverse. shopping on metaverse will require blockchain technology to secure the transaction. encrypted data can secure the transaction required on the metaverse, which is the fundamental link between cryptocurrency and the metaverse. then i decided to close my parenting project even though i had done a massive amount of work and gathered a lot of knowledge in that area. i felt sad about it, but i could not find an alternative to hold onto that. so i have only three projects and three blogs, and i feel better now as i can produce better quality work than before. i have published 110 ebooks on amazon and 40 online courses at udemy, but i did not see any success; that made me feel sad, and i started to make inquiries about it to find out the real reason. so, at some point, i realized that i should stop producing new work; instead, i had to go back and analyze why i did not have any sales. so, for the first time in my six years of internet marketing work, i wrote a note on the udemy platform asking for anyone to give me the reason for not having any sales. to my surprise, i got many answers, most of them were very depressing, and i felt terrible about my work. it took me some time to realize i should go back and check each of them to make the improvement they suggested. so, i updated my courses with more lectures, videos, and infographics, but that has not made much progress, and i got some sales after all that. that made me decide to check all my past work in most areas like ebooks, and youtube videos and pay the most attention to social media platforms like facebook, linkedin, and twitter. but i still do my daily postings to pinterest and tumbler, and i have given up using instagram as i feel it is unnecessary work for me as i have not seen good results. i have not seen any good results on any social media platforms. lastly, i love what i do, so i will take any amount of stress to see success in my business to achieve my goal. i never think about leaving my business as i feel proud of my achievements; maybe others might not know me, but i know i am a hard worker who achieved enormous knowledge over the years. referrals are one of the easiest ways to find a good content writer. referrals can be found through friends and family, or through professional social networks like linkedin. a quick search for content writers can return hundreds of thousands of results, so limit your search to connections you already know. you can also check out sites like freelancer or upwork to find a freelancer. the best way to hire a content writer for your startup company is through referrals. the best content writers know how to manage their time and make sure they are on track with deadlines. in many cases, clients don't understand how to set a deadline and fall behind. a content writer can turn a lack of structure into a timed schedule that meets your needs. ask friends and relatives for referrals. you can also ask for recommendations from colleagues and employees. referrals are the best way to find a content writer for a startup company because the person who referred them is likely to stick with the company and not leave. you can also look on linkedin and other professional social networks, but remember that it can be overwhelming if you search for a content writer on linkedin. unless you've already connected with a content writer through linkedin, your results will be limited. a good content writer will match the personality and interests of your audience. you'll want someone who understands your audience and has a human touch. a content writer needs to relate and connect with your audience on a personal level. you don't want to hire someone who doesn't have the right attitude for your audience. they need to have the right attitude and be flexible to meet your needs and budget. when hiring a content writer, it's important to remember that you're going to have to be flexible with their work schedule. you want someone who has the right attitude and is willing to put in the work. when choosing a freelance writer, you should take the time to review their portfolio and pay particular attention to readability and flow. similarly, be sure to ask about their experience in a particular niche. for example, if you're looking for someone to write for a b2b audience, they should have written for that audience before. before hiring a writer for your startup company, make sure you read reviews and testimonials of previous clients. try to ask them for references if they can provide them, but don't forget to check the writing site as well. this will allow you to see their work and read client feedback. this way, you can decide on the best writer for your business. this is the best way to find a content writer for your startup company. upwork is an online marketplace where you can find freelancers who write for different types of companies. these people specialize in different topics and can help you with different types of content. before hiring one, you should know what your requirements are. once you have defined them, you can start finding freelancers. you can also search for freelancers on upwork, and compare their services. to find the best content writer for your startup company, ask past clients to recommend someone they have worked with in the past. if they gave a bad referral, ask them why. perhaps you set too high an expectation for the work, or your expectations were too low. in any case, you want to hire a writer with the right personality to fit your brand's personality. listed below are some tips to find the best content writer for your startup company. be sure to hire someone passionate about the project. the writer you hire should want to help promote your product or service, so they should be eager to get started. you can tell whether a writer takes the project seriously by listening to what you have to say. if they seem enthusiastic, they are likely to produce great content. during a phone call or an in-person meeting, you should listen to how they discuss the project. try to ask as many questions as you can and share information relevant to the project that you're looking for. when hiring a content writer, ensure they have relevant experience in marketing and seo. having some insight into the industry can be helpful, but it is not necessarily necessary to hire an industry expert. a good content writer should be familiar with the niche and understand your target audience. he or she should also be able to adapt different voices depending on the purpose of the content. if you can't find anyone who fits your criteria, hire a freelance writer. when hiring a content writer, be clear about your goals and strategy. many clients fail to follow up on initial writing tasks because they are too busy or have important deadlines. similarly, a content writer with industry knowledge should work with an employee who understands the business. this way, they will have an easier time producing content for you than a writer with limited knowledge. you may be pleasantly surprised by the level of service you can get. the first step is to find a freelance writer whose work is relevant to your niche. if you're in a b2b industry, it's important to have a blog and promote your content on social media. quality content will establish your company as an industry thought leader, as well as distinguish it from the competition. hiring a content writer can increase engagement and drive sales. another way to find quality writers is to ask friends and colleagues who've used freelance services. they'll be able to refer you to quality freelance writers based on their experience, skills, and portfolio. referrals and word-of-mouth are two of the best ways to find quality writers. alternatively, you can post your job on an online freelancing site such as freelancer. before hiring a writer, be sure to create an editorial calendar for the project. this will help them stay on track with the project. make sure you also give your freelance writer enough information about your company and industry to get started. a quality content writer should not need a lot of editing. you can set a budget per word for a certain number of words or per article, but make sure you know how much you want to pay in advance. while hiring freelancers can save you money and time, it is important to ensure that the quality of the content you choose is worth it. a quality content writer will do much more than produce content that satisfies your needs. if you don't trust a writer, they will not care about your audience and may not deliver on the work you've asked them to do. conservative twitter accounts gained followers after musk's purchase, while progressive accounts lost followers. twitter said in a statement that the swing was organic, especially after many liberals decided to leave twitter in favor of elon musk's position as a "free speech absolutist" as conservatives struggled to open new accounts following the announcement. many liberals have vowed to leave twitter due to musk's uncompromising pro-free speech stance, and there is also the possibility that conservatives have decided to band together and follow a right they admire following the news of musk's purchase. during our studies or even before we enter university, we start thinking about our dream job, then we face real life. some lucky people find their targeted, planned job once they start working, but a great number of others do not. if one can cover his financial commitments until they find their passion, then it is better to plan patiently to have it. if not, then working any job is a must until another hope emerges on the horizon. you have to prepare for your desired career or keep applying for the desired job while you are in your current unfavorite one, at least until you can abide by your commitments without it. the dream job, from my perspective, is the balanced one that has a good package of benefits, a good compensation plan, not necessarily phenomenal, morally satisfactory, and above all leaves you a living man. there are wonderful jobs that cover every point but leave you energyless, unwilling, and incapable of living or enjoying your family or social life. more and above, you love and enjoy working it. at last, the dream job varies according to your needs, wants and ambitions. if you are badly in need of living basics, a dream job could be a very simple one. on the contrary, the higher and more prestigious your career, the higher requirements and benefits you will seek, hence, more complicated details will be considered. but, in general, your priorities control your career and choices. it is always up to you. the volume of digital assets such as films, audios, photographs, documents, and creative files grows as more firms expand, scale, and digitize. dam software is the best way to manage these digital assets. dam software automates the management of media assets like adverts, product photographs, sales collateral, audio recordings, and video files. users can create, organize, distribute, and manage digital asset access rights across locations and business sectors using digital asset management technologies. bynder is the simplest method to manage your digital assets professionally. teams may collaborate in real-time for on-brand approvals and real-time collaborative revisions, as well as simple file sharing and storage and auto-formatting for channels and file kinds. it offers a single cloud-based gateway for all branded company assets and marketing. with over 15 years of experience in the agile sector, jira provides teams with the best tools and best practices to lay the groundwork for future growth. it is web-based digital asset management software that allows users to view and share files and photographs on pcs, macs, android, and ios devices. on a single platform, you can automate workflows, collaborate with team members, track progress updates, and analyze strategic kpis. wrike is enterprise work management software that includes proofing, time tracking, gantt charts, kanban boards, and other features. and, if you need some worthwhile leads regarding the better websites that will help you grow your online working from home business then consider a very well known site known as youtube. as you may gather from its name, this website is a good place where you can find many online videos and you can even share your own videos by uploading them to this site at no cost. when you visit this website, you will be one of the growing number of people that also visit youtube where they find good opportunities to share stories through videos, and it is also a good place to show your wares. however, remember that this website attracts people who may be more interested in personalities rather than business opportunities and so you need to be very informative about yourself. promotion, as a type of business, has one important feature - a different understanding process by the performer and the customer. an additional problem is that each specialist in the field of promotion can have their own opinions, regarding the methods used. agree that before building a house, a plan and a project are always created. when there is a situation of acceptance of work, the contractor and the customer have documentation, by which it is very easy to determine whether the desired result has been achieved. at the same time, in the construction industry, most experts have very similar opinions regarding the application of technologies and methods to achieve results. if the result differs from the plan, then it is quite easy for the builders to understand the cause of the problem. given the high cost of materials and labor, practically building a house never starts without a project. website promotion according to the degree of complexity of the processes is hardly easier than constructing a cottage. it is also interesting that customers and executors of a website promotion project often have a different understanding of the logic of project development. customers want predictable results for moderate money, while the performer wants to complete the task and continue the project. at first glance, the goals are close, but there is a very significant difference in the perception of planned and actual results. performers, like no one else, understand the complexity and ambiguity of the processes they are involved in. a conscientious performer always wants to get a good result and, as a rule, makes every effort. however everyone knows that the result of the promotion is not at all guaranteed. the basic model of a manager is the managerial cycle. this is the sequence of actions: planning - execution - control - analysis - planning. moreover, the main criterion for effective business processes is predictability and controllability. there is also a certain psychological perception of the plan and its implementation. it is easy to verify the validity of this statement if you read any commercial contract. thus, methods may be used that directly violate the license of search engines systems, which can lead to penalties on their part. a great option, but there are two problems here. not all topics work with cpa networks. you can't even roughly predict how much traffic you'll get. having calculated the minimum option, it will not be difficult for us to calculate two other options, namely optimal and maximum. those days were a bliss for spammers and it was much easier to get high site ratings. you could use the keywords any number of times in the content body, in meta tags, comments, etc. it was also possible to hide everything from the eyes of the visitors by making the text invisible using special html tricks. the exception has always been yahoo, where a person indexed and excluded spam pages. over time, search engines have become able to distinguish between spam and fine pages. however, search engine optimizers have always been one step behind search engines in discovering new ways to cheat the index algorithms. in mid-1999, search portals tried to use the logic of the regular internet surfer to improve search results. search engine directhit introduced technology that kept track of which sites internet users chose. this method was called link popularity and remains one of the main ranking factors. both described parameters are known as external factors, because these are factors that do not depend on the content of the page. these pages are free from the influence of spammers. the seo industry has found a way out in the creation of so-called link farms. the idea is this: if search engines take into account the number of incoming links to the site, then you can create a special external link page that will be useful for crawlers. on this page you can post many links to our page and to other similar pages, and these links will do their job when the robot starts indexing them. yahoo was the first search engine and still remains one of the most popular. since yahoo directories are created by people, the search engine has faced a lack of human resources. yahoo editors are still striving to achieve the maximum number of pages covered. besides, thanks to off-page technologies, google is resistant to spam. google gained a foothold when yahoo switched to it from inktomi in 2000 as a second search engine. here are the ones that we decided to pay attention to: sitemap files, google analytics, google webmaster tools and many more. to comprehend crm, you must first comprehend its background. customer relationship management is abbreviated as crm. any technology, method, strategy, or process that assists businesses in better organizing and getting to client data and information is stated as customer relationship management. it all began with handwritten notes and rolodexes, but with the advent and spread of digital technology, it eventually grew into databases saved on individual computers, and the crm definition morphed into something lot more sophisticated. it wasn't simply about notes any longer. managing your company's client interactions has become a difficult task. to compete in any market today, you must have a dependable system built on crm software. a crm system is a platform that integrates your many departments. such departments are marketing, sales, and customer support. crm puts together all departments' notes, activities, metrics, and measurements into a solitary framework. every user has direct, easy access to the real-time customer data they require. this not just takes into account extraordinary joint effort across groups and departments, yet it additionally empowers organizations to offer their clients something out of the normal: customized, balanced client ventures. at the point when you balance that with the restricted ability of old analog and legacy systems, you have something that can modify how you speak with clients. crm software cannot be defined without mentioning saas and cloud computing, which work together to make crm systems available wherever a user has internet access. in light of these advancements, cloud-based crm programming might grow and scale with your organization. this expansion and scalability will permit any organization, regardless of how large or little, to benefit from a crm-programming-based framework. the salesforce crm is a cloud-based software corporation situated in san francisco, california. it provides crm software, apps, and programming for a variety of business operations, including customer service, sales, marketing automation, analytics, and application development. one of the advantages of a crm solution like dynamics 365 is that it includes analytics and automation tools that you would otherwise have to acquire individually. let's take a look at some real-world crm examples, the kind you might use to integrate dynamics 365 into your firm. data is in high demand, as are solutions that can turn it into actionable insights. microsoft dynamics crm assists firms in identifying trends that may indicate opportunities or problems that are about to become more serious. clients value when there are numerous ways of reaching an organization. many wells fargo clients, for example, choose to communicate with the bank through its social media sites. wells fargo's use of technology to track and respond to client inquiries left on all of their social media sites is a prominent example of crm. wells fargo personnel can notice interactions immediately and improvise a short response rather than leaving consumers hanging. in addition, the company uses cloud-based crm software to give the best customer service and streamline efficiencies throughout the company. you get all that you want to assemble a sophisticated, start to finish customer relationship management framework with microsoft dynamics crm. automation, reporting, and analytics are all accessible through simple, user-friendly interfaces. crm can assess information and give reports depending on the situation. to conduct all of these functions, crm solutions are divided into three categories: operational, analytical, and collaborative. an organization's sales process can be automated with the help of sales automation. the main goal of sales automation is to establish a standard for acquiring new clients and dealing with existing ones inside an organization. it arranges data in such a way that the company may better meet client needs and enhance sales. it contains lead management, contact management, quote-to-order management, and sales forecasting, among other crm sales modules. top management, marketing, sales, and support staff can utilize analytical crm to decide the most ideal way to serve clients. this sort of crm application's primary role is data analysis. it examines consumer data from numerous touchpoints to provide a better understanding of an organization's present state. it assists senior management in making better decisions, marketing executives in determining the effectiveness of campaigns, sales executives in increasing sales, and support workers in improving customer service quality and building strong customer relationships. accumulate buyer information from different sources and assess it in an orderly way. help the firm in creating deals, marketing, promoting, and client support techniques to reinforce client relationships and loyalty. improve the crm system's efficiency and examine key performance metrics established by the company. crm programs arrive in different shapes and sizes, each with its arrangement of highlights, features, and advantages. thus, before laying out a crm framework, it is basic for an organization to decide on its long-term goals and strategies. documentation and form filling are two instances of stages that are expected in the business process. nonetheless, these two processes are frequently squandered as needless activities. time is saved and unneeded extra effort is avoided with crm workflow automation. marketing and sales are two functions that, if left to their ways, would be detrimental to a business. your crm programming will deal with these two stages for you. if promotion and sales force collaboration is set up, the marketing department can move leads directly to sales. furthermore, sales automation, which encompasses sales forecasting, sales processing, recording, and tracking, is an important component. it identifies revenue-generating opportunities and aids in the evaluation of sales and performance. this critical aspect of crm comprises the efficient and precise use of human resources. hr management ensures that professionals' competencies and intellectual levels are adequate for the job. what makes it such an essential crm component for your business? first of all, it isn't just for large-scale corporate interests, but also small and medium-sized organizations. it involves the utilization of a savvy solution for individuals and ability and skill improvement. in crm deployment, lead management is utilized to keep track of prospects and their dispersion. this component is frequently utilized in sales, marketing, and customer service. everything is covered, from intelligent campaign management to customized forms and even messaging. it also analyzes client purchase trends to identify potential sales leads. make sure the crm software you're using allows you to quickly scan a list of all of your marketing leads. it also includes links to important information such as the prospect's information, successful conversions, website activities, and so on. a good crm software also allows you to contact, email, chat, or schedule appointments with potential clients all in one spot. a crm platform that is unable to collect as much information as possible about potential leads is practically useless. marketing is the most crucial component of customer relationship management. it alludes to the marketing and promotional endeavors that a firm participates in to promote its items, merchandise, and products. a similar strategy might be used to target a specific or large group of people. crm aids in turning into action the marketing strategy by boosting the effectiveness and adequacy of advertising campaigns. this is accomplished by watching and researching the actions of potential clients. furthermore, marketing is a component that includes several subcomponents. to name a few, campaign management, activity and document management, and so on. the use of these sub-components, on the other hand, differs per business. customer service functions collect data from customers, such as their purchasing habits and other pertinent information. this information assists businesses in better understanding what their customers desire and what their complaints and dissatisfactions are. when you close a sale, your relationship with your consumers does not end. orders must be filled, questions must be answered, and complaints must occasionally be addressed. if you feel your clients should be satisfied with your products or services, crm programming will be required. your company's customer service and case management will be handled by it. your product or services would instantly gratify the customer if you provided exceptional customer service. it can also reduce costs, increase staff engagement, increase efficiency, increase profit, and better manage upsells. crm systems are in charge of keeping track of various business records. it can generate a variety of precise and accurate reports. crm frameworks generate reports, but they also distribute them to associated networks. every company needs analytics because it is the technique for analyzing and reflecting information to maintain track of market changes. for a complete understanding and study of patterns, data should be easy to break down. this is achieved using graphical portrayals such as diagrams, histograms, and graphs. in these depictions, both historical and contemporary information is used. crm represents customer relationship management in banking, similarly to in different enterprises like retail or business. in banking, a customer relationship management solution aids banks in managing clients and improving comprehension of their requests and demands to provide relevant solutions as soon as possible. customer relationship management refers to the concepts, processes, procedures, strategies, tactics, and norms that a corporation uses while dealing with its customers. crm is a term that is frequently used to refer to technology firms and systems that aid in the management of external customer relations. software, cloud computing, and artificial intelligence are all major growth areas in crm technology. in addition to this, the more organic views you get from people searching through your products or services the higher your website will be indexed on the search engine pages. the ultimate goal for every website owner is to index a website on the first page of a popular search engine. when it comes to launching your website, you should be extra vigilant for any plagiarism or grammar mistakes, as the search engines pick these up and will filter out your information. there are multiple reasons why ranking on the 1st page of a search engine can fail. some of the reasons i have listed below. all in all, search engine optimization is a very simple process of making your website identifiable and visible as much as it possibly can to search engines. the majority of the people obtain their high value keywords by doing thorough market research. keywords are just one of the big benefits of having a search engine optimised website. what usually happens is that many individuals search top ranked keywords from many websites and user-friendly tools, and then start to base their articles, page or blog posts around them. it is essentially the art of understanding the language of the search engine and how to effectively communicate with it. applying and demonstrating effective seo techniques is actually not that hard and can be done by anyone. in fact, some of the most renowned internet marketers use instinct and progressive predictions and algorithms to find out where the blind spots are in the market. generally speaking, mlm is a way for people to make money when they sign up for a particular service or product. and you can go one step further and earn money even when people who sign up are recruiting themselves. so you usually make money with the pyramid effect. in a nutshell, before you start, you'll want to read as much as possible about the mlm industry. as with everything else, the more you know about something, the more likely you are to be successful. network marketing is relatively new, so it's very important to know the industry as a whole. multi-level marketing definitely isn't going anywhere. there are a lot of people making money, so the popularity will always be high. mlm has spread its influence in every direction and has also tapped into the gold and silver market, which makes it an extremely lucrative business model. one of the main problems is that the majority of the mlm sites are scams, and do nothing but promote a service or a product that they have no idea about nor do they embrace a logo or concept. mlm sites are like huge tidal waves that carry investors and stakeholders high enough to take the cream of the crop and low enough to suck your wallet dry. a parallel example of such a model is "trading". trading has its highs and lows and that's exactly what mlms are. if there is an algorithm that the individual has scoped down on, then i can only consider that as luck and not a progressive development whatsoever. the driving force of any dream is a success. you see the overnight success of businesses and organizations, and you want to achieve it too. the pride and pleasure of success, the luxury that comes with it, fame and recognition are appealing, and i am sure you want to experience it in your life. but what most people don't see is the planning, building, and hard work before coming to the limelight. don't compare anyone's success with yours. your business journey is different, focus and channel your energy towards achieving your goal. different business plans need different treatment. new entrepreneurs tend to get frustrated when their motivation dries up or when they initially don't see expected results. you need to develop new habits and follow routines to keep you going. a breakdown in the journey is not the end; it is a learning curve and stepping stone towards success. pushing through the difficult times and breaking the limits to reach your destination is the quality you require to achieve milestones. thorough market research on your field and your potential customer base demographics will help you understand your customers. conduct questionnaires, surveys, and discussions to know customers' preferences, needs, behavior, and expectations. discover the platforms your target customers use to socialize, and this will tell you where to pitch your product. know your competitors and see what they offer. try to provide the customers something that the competitors don't. explore the possibilities of making the product more affordable and delivering it quickly for the customers. calculate the time you need to start getting returns from your business and the percentage of the return you can pay towards your loan. determine the business structure by analyzing how it affects filing taxes and what is at stake if something goes wrong. you own the business entirely in a sole proprietorship, but the risk is also solely on you. in a partnership, two or more people are liable as business owners. investment and risk are shared between the partners. make a good understanding of your customer base and an excellent strategy to target your customers. for anyone who works or runs a business, mental well-being is essential, so they become happy at work, which increases memory power because of the relaxation of the brain. therefore, you have to schedule your break times and allocate the breaks to you and your workers not to affect your productivity in the business. you must leave your business or workplace for a specific time, like going for a walk or meditation or doing something creative. when you do not take enough breaks, it reduces your intellectual capacity, and your brain will have more creative connections when it gets enough rest. so, giving time to rest and recharge your brain helps you be more productive, which is essential in work or business. search engine optimization is hotter than ever. if you want your online business to earn anything these days, you must use seo techniques because most search engine users don't move beyond the first page of search results. however, not all seo companies are created equal so when outsourcing seo services, you need to consider many factors. make sure that the seo company you hire provides a detailed plan on how they will optimize your site. three important factors that the plan should address are the search habits of your target audience, the functionality and design of your website, and the algorithms used by search engines to index the website. ask each seo company how they plan to adapt their approach based on the unique needs of your website. there are four categories of seo services and they are website and competitor analysis, on-page seo, offsite seo, and monthly reports. learn what services each company offers and find out which ones are most needed for your seo campaign. some of the important services that may or may not be offered depending on the seo company in question include one-way backlinks and content creation services. you may have to outsource this service separately or take care of it yourself. seo is tricky, so before you decide who to outsource, find out what kind of customer support each company offers. it's important to know what customer support services are included in your plan and which ones incur additional costs. sometimes seo companies may have a limit on the number of hours you can talk to a customer service representative on the phone or the number of emails you can send. it is very important to have access to a qualified technician who is informed about your particular project and thus able to answer any specific questions you may have. you cannot have a successful blog without being active on social media. that's why you need to make sure that you participate in social media networks like facebook and twitter on a regular basis. you can also participate in blogging groups or forums where you can share your thoughts and ideas about what you do. however, make sure that whenever you post something, it's relevant and it adds value to the conversation. most bloggers have email lists where they send out updates, new blog posts, free offers and other things from time to time. if you want to be successful at blogging, you need to build an email list so that you can be more effective with communicating with people who visit your blog. people will love receiving updates from you on a regular basis so make sure that you take advantage of this opportunity. wordpress is used by many people because of its ease of use and many useful features. wordpress provides a user-friendly platform to install, use and develop without having to know too much about php and other programming languages. besides, it has various templates and themes from free to paid, where you can customize everything according to your taste. along with that, the rich library of wordpress plugins available helps to make your work easier and more efficient. wordpress also offers to monetize with woocommerce, an ecommerce platform optimized for wp. those few short lines are enough for you to understand why more and more users migrate to wordpress, right? wordpress themes are hard to edit unless you understand what you're doing. even for coders who aren't familiar with wordpress' theme structure, it can take a long time to tweak. a lot of free wordpress themes and plugins are not updated and supported, making it difficult to keep everything running smoothly once the wordpress platform is updated. security is also one of the limitations for wordpress. this comes from the fact that the platform is open source and very popular. this makes wordpress a prime target for many hackers who can search wordpress sites and find you even if you only have a small website. they can also easily find security loopholes and weaknesses, making these websites more vulnerable to hacking. the constant occurrence of hacked wordpress websites requires users to update new versions, patches, or plugins to enhance security continuously. this doesn't take long but can become annoying when you just want to install and forget about them to focus on other things. professional blogs with multiple authors and editors find that wordpress lacks basic user management and role division capabilities. this can be overcome through wordpress multisite plugins and split management roles, but it cannot be as good as using a cms with built-in functions. this cms is completely free, although some premium extensions need to be purchased if you want to use it. joomla is ideal when you want to build a large, complex site without having to know too much about programming. this platform is superior to wordpress in that it has better team management and project management capabilities. for example, there is a messaging function to increase the possibility of cooperation. like wordpress, textpattern can be easily extended with plugins, which are regularly updated by collaborators. there are also a variety of front-end and backend themes to choose from, all of which can be easily customized to meet your requirements. whether you're a programmer looking for a background in html and css programming, or just a blogger looking to try something new and less fragmented than wordpress, textpattern is well worth checking out. it's a great solution for you to master in no time, as it also includes a detailed set of textpattern tutorials. if you are looking for an easy-to-manage cms platform for a project that requires multiple contributions from multiple sources or an e-learning site, tiki wiki is the option you should consider. while it's not as customizable in terms of interface as wordpress, it has fewer plugins compatibility issues. the functionality of websitebaker can be extended through downloaded modules. these modules can help you add image galleries, subscription forms, event calendars, and more. you can also customize the module you just downloaded, using different admin tools. in addition, websitebaker also has many beautiful templates to design your site. some researchers believe that zippers could be the first machines most people learn to master when they are children. they will remain part of a person's daily life as long as they live. some may not think that a zipper is a machine, but it meets the criteria. it involves carefully fitted pieces of metal or plastic moving a closely coordinated item that requires force to use it properly. it also has an amazing history. repeated attempts were made to try to get zippers to become a popular part of adult clothes. this eventually occurred in 1937 with men's clothes. this is when the duke of windsor wanted to have trousers with a zipper in them. this one incident eliminated the resistance of tailors around the world. the zipper was soon no longer something unknown to most men. the zipper device was now being used in everything from hunting jackets to trousers as well as overshoes and more. the public began to see the zipper as inconspicuous, dependable as most of all, convenient. by the time 1938 rolled around, over 20 percent of men's clothing had zippers. soon, only the most stubborn people didn't wear clothing with zippers. by the time 1939 came around over three hundred million zippers were being manufactured annually. this is double the number of zippers that were manufactured in the two previous years. when 1950 arrived, annual sales of zippers amounted to over a billion dollars. the first manufacturers of zippers produced a metal product. it was good to use thick materials and strong metal. these metal zippers were usually made of brass, aluminum, and nickel. as the zippers gained popularity, they were eventually made of plastic. these zippers were pliable, soft, and easy to maintain. zippers now come in various materials such as colored metallic, coils, and more. at this juncture, expect a different idea. normally, i would have just suggested you try exploring the opportunities online which is advisable in respect to what the topic of this article is all about. former president donald trump should never be allowed to run for a second term as president. trump is gearing up to run for the 2024 election, with support from some republicans. some of trump's principal supporters are backing away from him. trump will lash out at those he feels betrayed him for any reason. for years the republican party was strong with respect, morals, and dignity until trump. donald trump changed the party into what he wanted, do as i say, people. trump did some despicable things when he was president and was never held accountable. the united states is well protected from threats from other countries, but who will defend our country from trump? he committed crimes against the united states and that is treason. donald trump is a criminal who must be held accountable like anyone who breaks the law. meanwhile, thomas kallistel lived in a three-room flat with his wife and three children. after the presidency, he asked his wife one day about the difference between life before the presidency and after the presidency. his wife replied that now the people of the neighborhood and the area live away from him. they don't like talking too much. when he inquired about this from the neighborhood, the people of his neighborhood said that they are inconvenienced by the arrival of protocol vehicles in the morning and evening. the two cases mentioned above show that nations progress only when their rulers set a good example for the people and have a direct impact on the development of the country. people also adopt the same characteristics after seeing them. if our rulers consider themselves as servants of the people, instead of thinking of themselves as rulers, they can do something for the betterment of the people. walker was stationed in norfolk, virginia and was dealing with financial struggles when he first sold information to the soviets that allowed them to read encrypted messages. it all started when he entered the soviet embassy in washington. in the early 1970s, john brought in a friend and naval radio operator, who would pass walker classified encrypted data that the soviets would be very interested in receiving. he continued to grow his spy ring by recruiting his older brother, who owned a car radio business that was failing, and encouraging him to work for a navy contractor so that he could access sensitive documents. walker then moved on to his son michael, who was an archivist for a fighter squadron in virginia beach and later worked on the aircraft carrier nimitz. walker convinced him to remove secret documents and conceal them under his jacket. walker and his co-conspirators gathered a considerable amount of information, including descriptions of changes made to american submarines that helped the soviets make improvements to their own fleet. some of the classified documents even allowed the soviets to track american submarines and ships. the illegal activities of the walker spy ring were eventually reported to law enforcement by john's ex-wife barbara crowley, who found incriminating materials in john's desk. she claims she was unaware of her son's involvement. the walker case led to several books and documentaries. it also led to changes in the way how the department of defense protects classified information. following the exposing of the spy ring, rules were put in place to reduce the number of people with access to secret military information. the walker convictions also generated a number of counterintelligence initiatives. it also helps if you are a speed reader for the thousands of pages of agenda that you will likely be expected to wade through. do you have a family, or a family that is prepared to sacrifice that time with you? sadly, one of the reasons that many good candidates do not put their name forward is because the pay provided is not sufficient to meet their needs. on the plus side, travel reimbursement and meals are usually part of the package. you will have to decide if you are able to meet your needs with the return on offer. in the first instance, you may face rejection if you stand and are not elected. however, if you are elected you will find that you are on the receiving end of a lot more rejection. it is a good idea to honestly establish your motivation for standing for local government before putting your name forward. this is not to say that you cannot change direction, but you have to know how and when to pull the levers. you also have to have enough friends around the table with like mindset. when your motivation is self-serving you should be prepared to be publicly exposed and critiqued. there are always people watching and questioning. if you do not get your wishes outlined in the ltp update, with an associated budget attached, it is very hard to bring about change in the intervening years. if you have not seen the british comedy series yes minister, i highly recommend viewing this prior to standing as it is sadly accurate as to the inner workings of the local government machine as well. many people are angered and frustrated with us president joe biden's fist bump with saudi arabian crown prince mohammed bin salman. upon arriving in saudi arabia, president biden cordially returned the crown prince's welcoming gesture. the problem is that many people see this figure in saudi arabia as an enemy, most specifically because they see him as responsible for the death of journalist khashoggi. the woman that khashoggi had plans to marry took to social media including twitter to voice her disappointment about president biden's cordial interaction with the crown prince of saudi arabia. president joe biden insists that he does not regret this visit to saudi arabia where there were meetings to discuss regional security and to solicit saudi arabia for more oil. in the news broadcast for yesterday, july 14, 2022, it was announced that ivana trump has died. she was found unresponsive at the bottom of the stairs at her manhattan, new york apartment. ivana trump was pronounced dead at the scene. an ohio medical examiner has determined that jayland walker's body had 46 gunshot wounds. jayland walker, a 25 year old black man in ohio was shot at by eight police officers that were pursuing him in an attempted traffic stop. he was unarmed at the time that he exited his car and began running on foot. the police officers stated that they began shooting when jayland walker stopped running and turned towards them. a tops supermarket that had been the scene of a mass shooting has now re-opened. white supremacist peyton gendrin targeted this supermarket as a mass shooter wanting to kill as many black people as possible. he shot and killed ten black people at this site. he has since been indicted on 27 counts of hate crimes. there have been new russian attacks on civilians in ukraine with the eastern ukraine city of dnipro being the latest target. in addition to the aforestated view, it can also be brought to the context that using terrorism should not even be a resort for achieving an agenda. attempting to gain advantages through violence or unlawful action while deserting the system is embraced by the majority of the society is certainly an act of covetousness. notably, terrorist attacks can bring about neither efficacious nor immediate outcomes. instead, it escalates international tension and creates a vicious cycle of violence in which countries thrash each other in the name of countermeasures or retaliation. rather than resorting to more peaceful approaches, strategies could potentially call forth a transnational solution while maintaining social cohesion internationally. to cite an example, platforms such as media can be utilized to convey messages, provided their high popularity and perceptiveness around the world. compared to terrorist attacks, they not only leave a discredited image but invariably usher people to doubt their objectives. once again, taking hamas as an illustration, after the commencement of implanting suicide bombings in israel was it earmarked as a terrorist group. however, before the terrorist group was identified it was only regarded as a political bloc in palestine. all in all, regardless of the motives, using means of terror cannot be condoned as morally appropriate and cannot be justified. maybe she is just poor in a circumstance and society which goes out of its way to damage the lives of the poor, and responding with total sanity, all things considered. that is what the monarchial and only true sovereign principle would have me do. and society does so because they're inconvenient, not because putting them away is just. maybe if somebody gave her a second chance, maybe, just maybe, it would actually do some good for her and for society at large, rather than just putting her away because she's inconvenient. the coronation oath says to cause law and justice with mercy and discretion to be executed in all one's judgments, and this is an oath that every sovereign of the united kingdom takes. and as a monarchist, and speaking to other monarchists in this regard, if we're going to ask people to embrace monarchy in all of what it stands for, then i ask, ought we not embrace it ourselves, and hold ourselves to the same standards as would the monarchs that we respect and revere? i'm not going to ask the popularity of the angry mob whether or not they believe it's just to burn the witch. but the crown wins in this instance, and i have chosen divine and sovereign clemency. however, they never want to talk about the reserve militia in their discussions. i believe that now is the time for decent people, who are volunteers for the reserve militia, to join forces with their local law enforcement, and take their communities back. all these negative situations led to the large-scale migration of the vast unemployed workforce. imagine the lives of lonely women in a blindfolded society along with poverty and natural disasters. but the women of the land of rivers were no longer interested in flowing endless stream of tears. they realized that their income was vital to family survival. thus, for the first time, they broke away the shackles of chains strangling their neck, created by old-aged customs and traditions. they started to actively participate in the economic activities of the nation. from the 1990s women handled a crucial role in the agricultural sector which acted as a pillar in holding the underdeveloped country suffering from an acute shortage of food grains. about 80 percent of the women engaged in agriculture as part-time laborers, cultivators, or tenants. since then the economic contribution of women was substantial but was not acknowledged or helped by the patriarchic society. with the 1998 floods, international aid flooded in, and several foreign non-government organizations started to operate in the nation. the external support stretched out to bangladesh could not be omitted while describing this tale. for someone so nomadic it seems out of character to settle down to the prosaic world of bookkeeping. but this was the final occupation he chose when he opened an office in manhattan in a building that also housed a printer named samuel adams. the problem with this story is that we only have the version of the surviving combatant, the unfortunate adams was not in a position to give his recollection. all murderers face the problem of getting rid of the deceased. some try acid baths, others go for burial deep in a forest or under the floor of the coal cellar. burning the body is sometimes resorted to but bones have a disconcerting resistance to all but the fiercest fires. however, a storm blew up that kept the kalamazoo in port long enough for suspicions to rest on john colt over the disappearance of adams. witnesses recalled seeing a carman pick up a large crate at colt's address. the man was traced and recalled delivering the crate to the kalamazoo. police went on board the ship and made their grisly discovery. he had a proper bed to sleep in rather than a pile of straw that was the lot of other inmates. he was allowed any number of visitors including his pregnant girlfriend caroline henshaw, who brought him flowers and a canary in a cage. a couple of attempts were made to smuggle him out of the prison dressed as a woman, but they were foiled by hawk-eyed guards who probably had not received the proper bribe for looking the other way. some prison guards fled, and a number of inmates got out with them; for a while, the whole place was in a state of confusion. but, the execution must go on. caroline colt vanished, so cue the conspiracy theorists. was some poor sap used as a body substitute for colt who then slipped out of the tombs while everybody was running around dealing with the fire? the lack of usn and nato presence in the black sea surely sends putin the wrong message. it conveys that under orders from biden, the usn will seldom patrol the area out of fear of provoking the russians. it is this same fear of escalation that biden had when he blocked the ukrainians mig-29s from poland after putin used his "nuclear threat card". putin is playing president biden's fears of escalation to his own advantage to get the upper hand in the war. part of the problem and solution is turkey, a quasi-nato member that controls access to the black sea under an outdated treaty. basically, turkey denies or grants ships entering the black sea based on many things in order to control shipping traffic in the congested straits through which ships pass through. the problem is that turkey is also friends with russia on a too close basis. they have partnered in the mideast on issues and in north africa. they are not a dependable ally and frequently against other nato members! turkey really serves little value to nato now as it acts only in its own interests. russia is gradually destroying 25 tons of ukrainian grain in silos and warehouses located in the odessa area. they have stolen some of it and sold it to african nations. to prevent the ukrainians from exporting grain, russia has blockaded the two main ports for ukraine besides putting mines off shore. of course, the ukrainians also put mines off shore in order to prevent russia from using the same ports! the risk is great, for sure, but not doing anything is only playing into putin's war plan. if turkey refused to admit the number of ships in the convoy to the black sea, it is time to revoke this outdated treaty and send them through. to solve the problem of mass shootings, we must have an open dialog about guns. everyone has a right to protect themselves. however, i don't believe ordinary citizens should have access to military-type weapons. why do we need to own fully automatic guns that fire 100 rounds in a matter of seconds? what, or who are we trying to kill? there is something inherently evil about that kind of thinking. fear, hate, and evil are the only things that can compel an individual to murder so many innocent people so despicably. in every country except the united states, mass shootings are met with a common response: officials impose new restrictions on gun ownership. in 1987, a british gunman killed 16 people. in response, the country banned semiautomatic weapons like those he had used. after a 1996 school shooting, the british government also banned most handguns. they now have one of the lowest gun-related death rates in the world. since the uvalde mass shooting, there have been at least 33 more mass shootings in the united states and we have done nothing but point the finger at one another. when we examine the problem in america up close, we discover that the problem is not mental illness, but a political system that is aided by the filibuster that is badly in need of reform. the united states has a rate of mass shootings that is unparalleled. despite the increased number of mass shootings in america, we have consistently refused to tighten our gun laws. why are americans so slow to act against these mass shootings? to what extent would people go to keep their military-style weapons of destruction? will we sacrifice our children to keep a gun? what are people so afraid of that would prompt them to turn their heads and close their eyes while innocent children are being murdered? some gun owners say if they surrender their ar-15s, the government will want them to surrender their handguns as well. as ukraine keeps being bombarded by russia, and russia takes heavy casualties, loses equipment and suffers from ukrainian guerilla warfare, a victory for one side or the other seems unlikely, as this conflict just for one city could take weeks, if not months. if ukraine can stand against russian offensives and bombardment, a victory for russia does not seem imminent. still, russia has a chance to take sieverodonetsk and push into the donbas region if ukraine lets their guard down, but this does not seem to be happening anytime soon. in america, i recall a teacher once rolling his eyes and asking aloud how crazy people were to believe in the divine right of kings for instance - a topic of which, clearly, he knew only insofar as his opinion on it extended, and i do not believe for a moment he read anything by any pro-divine right writer of the time. this was also in a special class i took on history, a sort of re-examination of what we had already come to know in elementary and primary school: for instance, the american revolution. it occurs to me that people do not question republics, nor america's necessity in the world; nor do they question whether or not the founding of america was a good thing. we can go into what might be different in the next article, i have a few ideas. for now, let us wonder as to that unquestionability and why questioning america earns one mockery and social and academical leprosy. granted, to some degree, that is to be expected, but one hopes for a comprehensive and well-versed understanding of the reasons behind the founding on all sides. or, at the very least, an understanding that wars are fought for reasons that are more than one sided - that there aren't heroes and villains by default in most wars, and that the arguments on both sides were good enough that people on opposing sides of a debate took up arms for their point and cause. in america, they see him as a caricature, a complete distortion, but have no interest in correcting their view, and even when presented with fact and factuality, they are in my experience likely to doubt it, or tune it out; as though facts and truth were neither. what this does in effect is indoctrinate a one sided war theory and governmental model as being the only desirable model that there is, in their limited exposure. perhaps by design, this is done when they are children, during the years that they are forming the foundational pillars upon which they will rest and stand and stabilise their view of the world for the rest of their lives. one cannot just expose oneself to one side of one debate, because propaganda and jingoism become incorrectly understood as facts rather than one side of a two sided coin. the homeless might be able to explain it to you, if this article is insufficient to illustrate and demonstrate one of equality's downsides. it takes an unequal one to liberate the equal many - one who is not like the others around him - to make any change in a republic happen of any real meaning or import; that is to say, it takes, sometimes, the principle of inequality to save the principle of equality. but equality becomes a millstone around the neck because of the unwritten and customary inequalities that people tacitly accept as "the way things are" without thinking too hard about their absurdity or obscenity insofar as toleration of their presence as factors in modern society. a disagreement is a type of conflict, either between two persons or their ideas. when it comes to matters of taste and judgment, there is always room for differences of opinion. when other people tell us that our beliefs or opinions are wrong, we usually raise our hackles. sometimes, we try to hide our irritation but many a time disagreements may escalate as both people become ego-involved and stick to their views. many a time, the persons on one side of the issue can come to regard those on the opposite side as having negative personal attributes such as being ignorant, ill-informed, and biased. when people adopt one set of views, other people can start to view them from this negative perspective. the negative perceptions of disagreeing with others include judgments such as unlikeable, dishonest, and even lacking in such qualities as leadership potential. their dislike extends to the desire not to want to be friends with these people, invite them to a neighborhood group or even vote for them in an election. a state of prolonged public disagreement, concerning a matter of conflicting opinion or point of view can become controversial. when disagreements are about heated topics such as politics, people will be even less likely to take note of the strength of contradictory opinions. good listening conveys positive regard for you by making it clear that, though you disagree strongly, you respect the person. there are, however, things that argue against this narrative. russia and ukraine have similar levels of perceived corruption, and yet ukraine is performing far better than russia, at least on a pound for pound basis. and some russian formations have certainly performed far better in the past. russia won its last several wars after all, and russian ground units put up far more credible performances in say, the russo-georgian war, and while the ukrainians were dismally prepared, in 2014 most combat between the russians and ukrainians was rather one-sided. instead, the problems with dictatorships and war come from the societies that they emerge from. poor countries, with internal tensions papered over by a strong, authoritarian state, and citizenry unused to initiative and authority, will struggle. but there are plenty of dictatorships which don't share these characteristics, a host of populist dictatorships that unite their people on projects of war, that are buttressed by rather than fearful of their militaries, and have sufficient material means for war. not a huge amount, since the trend is that wealthier, more developed, less damaged countries will be democracies, but they exist. these countries will probably wage war as well as democracies, and democracies can have the same issues - a read of say, marc bloch's etrange defaite on france's defeat in 1940 can show a democracy whose society had important internal fractures that helped lead to defeat, just like a dictatorship might. a few statistics will avail much in understanding the current energy order. for starters, russia is the third biggest producer of oil in the world, behind the us and saudi arabia. russia is the eu's main supplier of crude oil, natural gas, and solid fossil fuels. it is estimated that in 2019, almost two-thirds of extra eu crude oil came from russia. another study estimated that russia contributed three-quarters of the eu's imports of natural gas. while the uk and the us are not much dependent on russian gas, it is apparent that the eu is heavily dependent on russian gas. before the war, one of the claims was that the ukrainians would simply accept their russian brothers, as willing members of the triune. the catastrophic misperception was at the heart of the invasion's failure. before the war, one of the claims was that the ukrainians would simply accept their russian brothers, as willing members of the triune. the catastrophic misperception was at the heart of the invasion's failure. before the war in ukraine, russia had six pillars of support behind its status as a global, great power. the second complete fabrication comes from mr. lieberman's claim that all of the bad stuff only happened after biden took over - as if biden was in office in april of 2020 or the trump administration did not pass two stimulus packages prior to biden's inauguration that were also spending increases. the russian invasion that has contributed to energy price increases was the only accurate thing he stated in that paragraph. in the present article, we'll have a virtual tour of the mandapeshwar caves, a group of ancient rock-cut caves bearing a long and interesting history, situated in a busy area of the dahisar suburb of mumbai. the huge cave, cut in the rock, is rectangular in shape. in front there is the mandapa, which is a large space supported by several decorated stone columns. there are several relief works on the walls, most of which are now eroded and difficult to interpret. there is a small but beautiful stone statue of nandi the bull, the vahana or vehicle of lord shiva, in the sitting posture facing the sanctum. there is a beautiful stone-made lampstand near the nandi statue with burning lamps. at first, there is a small mandapa supported by well decorated pillars. on the western wall of this mandapa, there is a huge high relief work depicting lord shiva with goddess parvati and several other figures, supposedly of the "gana"-s, who were companions of lord shiva and other nymphs and minor gods and goddesses the beautiful relief work shows lord shiva in his human-like nataraja form. though the image is partly broken, especially in the lower part, still the grace and beauty of nataraja is clearly visible. on the western side of the hill, the cemetery of the new church with a statue of lord jesus can be seen from here. panoramic photograph showing the george washington statue outside federal hall, 23 wall street and the new york stock exchange building. panoramic view of the site with the george washington statue outside federal hall at far left, 23 wall street at center left, and the new york stock exchange building at right photograph of an office with several desks and a table with large windows in the background photograph of damage to a wall of 23 wall street from the 1920 wall street bombing. the building is on an l-shaped site. while the lower section has a facade of limestone, the upper stories incorporate a buff-colored brick facade and contain numerous setbacks. the facade also includes spandrels between the windows on each story, which are recessed behind the vertical piers on the facade. at the top of the building is a pyramid with a spire at its pinnacle. inside, the lower floors contained the manhattan company's double-height banking room, a board room, a trading floor, and two basements with vaults. the remaining stories were rented to tenants; there were private clubs on several floors, as well as an observation deck on the 69th and 70th floors. the facade of the building as seen from wall street. the first story is clad with granite and has several openings; the words "trump building" are visible above the granite columns. above the first story are several floors of windows, which are separated by vertical stone piers. a diagram of the tallest buildings in the world from 1908 to 1974, all of which have been in new york city. 40 wall street, which was the tallest from april to may 1930, is listed at center as having a height of 283 meters. black-and-white photo of the building interior, with the teller's desk on the right and a doorway with a pair of columns in the background black-and-white image of the building as seen from wall street and hanover street the ancient greek term acra was used to describe other fortified structures during the hellenistic period. the acra is often called the seleucid acra to distinguish it from references to the ptolemaic baris as an acra and from the later city quarter of jerusalem which inherited the name acra. here are the events leading up to the maccabean revolt in which the acra played an important role, based again mainly on josephus' antiquities of the jews and the first and second book of maccabees. a robed woman raises her hands in grief over dead bodies strewn across the steps of a pedimented temple while a seated man holding a scepter sits and observes from the background then they fortified the city of david with a great strong wall and strong towers, and it became their citadel. and they stationed there a sinful people, lawless men. these strengthened their position; they stored up arms and food, and collecting the spoils of jerusalem they stored them there, and became a great snare. it became an ambush against the sanctuary, an evil adversary of israel continually. 1903 map of jerusalem, identifying the acra with the entire south eastern hill. about five hundred men of the army of nicanor fell, and the rest fled into the city of david. looking down into a large excavation site, a glacis, seen in cross section, rests against a wall to the left the glacis associated with the acra unearthed in 2015 in the givaty parking lot dig. view of the domed rotunda, which contains a skylight at the center, surrounded by murals on the ceiling. the rotunda connects the lobby with the exhibition galleries of the heye center. the rotunda connects the lobby with the exhibition galleries of the heye center. a wide variety of financial documents, including international currency, were printed at the plant. at one point, over five million documents were produced per day, including half the securities being traded on the new york stock exchange. although the plant printed money for countries around the world, it was best known for producing currencies for countries in latin america. the plant also housed a research department which worked to improve materials and processes to deter forgeries. the plant was the target of a terrorist bombing in 1977 with the site chosen specifically because it was printing currency for latin american countries. the facility was used by american bank note until about 1984 after which the property has changed hands several times, undergone a series of renovations, and been designated a new york city landmark. as of 2024 it has been subdivided, with major tenants including the john v. lindsay wildcat academy charter school and the new york city human resources administration. historical photograph of woodside mansion with trees surrounding it. the front of the house has six columns in the doric style, two stories tall. the ground slopes up gently from the photographer's location to the building. ace of spades, king of diamonds, joker, and reverse design from a deck of playing cards. bullet holes left by a shoot-out between the khmer rouge and vietnamese forces at angkor wat a fight scene on an angkor wat bas-relief mural. a man uses an elbow strike to the jaw of his opponent while enemies with spears approach. the illustrations and ornamentation of the book of kells surpass those of other insular gospel books in extravagance and complexity. the decoration combines traditional christian iconography with the ornate swirling motifs typical of insular art. figures of humans, animals and mythical beasts, together with celtic knots and interlacing patterns in vibrant colours, enliven the manuscript's pages. many of these minor decorative elements are imbued with christian symbolism and so further emphasise the themes of the major illustrations. the abbey of kells was dissolved because of the ecclesiastical reforms of the 12th century. the abbey church was converted to a parish church in which the book of kells remained. the 12th-century writer gerald of wales, in his topographia hibernica, described seeing a great gospel book in kildare which many have since assumed was the book of kells. the description certainly matches kells. the book of kells contains the text of the four gospels based on the vulgate. it does not, however, contain a pure copy of the vulgate. there are numerous differences from the vulgate, where old latin translations are used in lieu of jerome's text. although such variants are common in all the insular gospels, there does not seem to be a consistent pattern of variation amongst the various insular texts. evidence suggests that when the scribes were writing the text they often depended on memory rather than on their exemplar. folio 309r contains text from the gospel of john written in insular majuscule by the scribe known as hand b. the boydell shakespeare gallery in london, england, was the first stage of a three-part project initiated in november 1786 by engraver and publisher john boydell in an effort to foster a school of british history painting. in addition to the establishment of the gallery, boydell planned to produce an illustrated edition of william shakespeare's plays and a folio of prints based upon a series of paintings by different contemporary painters. during the 1790s the london gallery that showed the original paintings emerged as the project's most popular element. a printed prospectus that states the objectives of the boydell project and those involved. an engraving taken from a painting shows ophelia as a woman in a long white filmy dress with long blonde hair. she is beneath a large tree and holds onto a thin branch as she reaches out precariously over a river. richard westall's ophelia, engraved by j. parker for boydell's illustrated edition of shakespeare's dramatic works the winter's tale, act ii, scene 3, engraved by jean pierre simon from a painting by john opie commissioned and prepared for engraving by the shakespeare gallery. boydell sought out the most eminent painters and engravers of the day to contribute paintings for the gallery, engravings for the folio, and illustrations for the edition. artists included richard westall, thomas stothard, george romney, henry fuseli, benjamin west, angelica kauffman, robert smirke, james durno, john opie, francesco bartolozzi, thomas kirk, henry thomson, and boydell's nephew and business partner, josiah boydell. a man and a woman are at the center of the image, talking to each other. at the left of the image, a man is trying to rush in and confront them, but is held back by soldiers. engraving of a building designed in the classical style, with pilasters, a pediment, and a statue on the top section, and a rounded arch over the doorway on the lower. engraving of a sculpture of a man seated on a rock, surrounded by two bare-breasted nymphs. one is playing a harp and placing a crown of laurels on his head. engraving by benjamin smith after thomas banks's sculpture of shakespeare attended by painting and poetry a nearly naked man with finely defined muscles stands strongly with his right arm upraised. in the background are three amorphous figures swirling around with hoods over their heads. there is a second man standing between the first and the figures, pushing the figures away. james gillray's cartoon satirising the boydell venture; caption reads: "shakespeare sacrificed; or, the offering to avarice" the tempest, act i, scene i, engraved by benjamin smith after a painting by george romney. an alabaster statue showing death as a living skeleton. his right arm is draped with a shroud and raised upwards. his skull appears to be looking downwards. his shield is inscribed with a verse in french. in 1985, bancroft established a shop called designer aboriginals, selling fabrics made by aboriginal artists, including herself. she was a founding member of boomalli aboriginal artists co-operative. her artwork is held by the national gallery of australia, the art gallery of new south wales and the art gallery of western australia. she illustrated 20 children's books, including stradbroke dreamtime by activist oodgeroo noonuccal, and books by artist sally morgan. her design commissions include one for the exterior of a sydney sports centre. newspaper masthead with "the liberator" in large letters, with background scenes of a slave auction, jesus freeing a slave under the words "i have come to break the bonds of the oppressor", and an emancipated family living on their own farm. oil painting portrait of christiana bannister. she sits on an upholstered chair and wears a brown skirt and blouse, with a red bow at her throat. she is clasping her hands and resting them on a nearby table. a pastoral oil painting with a small pond in the foreground, with cows grazing nearby. a man is walking down a path toward the pond, with oars carried over his shoulder. a copse of oak trees darken the center and left side of the background, while further back at right another body of water and hills are visible. a color photograph of buildings along thomas street in providence, rhode island. the brick seril dodge house at right has three stories. it has a large wooden door, over which a lamp hangs. a small iron sign saying "providence art club" hangs from side of the building, over the sidewalk. a small brick archway connects it to the other seril dodge house at left, just out of view. in the 1880s bannister bought a small sloop, the fanchon, and spent summers sketching, painting watercolors, and sailing narragansett bay and up to bar harbor in maine. he would return with his studies and use them as the basis for winter commissions. he supplemented his sailing trips with journeys to exhibitions in new york, but a planned trip to europe fell through due to lack of money. an oil painting showing two men, both wearing hats and the one at left wearing a beard, pulling a small dingy out of the water and onto the grass. two women wearing handkerchiefs on their head and carrying baskets watch from the background. a photograph of the ruins of a palace with human skeletal remains in the foreground. beato, who had covered military operations in india and china, was probably attracted by the news of the annexation. while he arrived in burma after the main military operations ended, he would still get to see more of the action, as the annexation by the british led to an insurgency which lasted for the following decade. this allowed beato to take a number of pictures of the british military in operations or at the royal palace, mandalay, as well as insurgency soldiers and prisoners. beato set up a photographic studio in mandalay and, in 1894, a curiosa and antiques dealership, running both businesses separately and, according to records at the time, very successfully. his past experience and the credibility derived from his time in japan brought him a large clientele of opulent locals, posing in traditional attire for official portraits. other images, from buddhas to landscapes and buildings, were sold from master albums in burma and europe. in 1896, trench gascoigne published some of beato's images in among pagodas and fair ladies and, the following year, mrs ernest hart's picturesque burma included more, while george w. bird in his wanderings in burma not only presented thirty-five credited photographs but published a long description of beato's businesses and recommended visitors to come by his shop. by that time, beato's photographs had come to represent the very image of burma to the rest of the world, which it would remain for decades to come. jean bellette and fellow julian ashton art student quinton tidswell in front of the tidswell family home in sydney an oil painting of five figures in a landscape, three standing, one seated, and one reclining on the ground. they are painted in a slightly abstract manner rather than being realistic. born in norwich, into a family of craftsmen, brettingham worked initially as a surveyor, gaining experience through jobs for the city's civic authorities. work included restorations at norwich cathedral, at the castle, at the local prison and the shire hall. his professional ascent began in 1743 with his appointment to the post of clerk of works at holkham. the succeeding decades saw many aristocratic commissions, predominantly in east anglia, but including work at kedleston hall in derbyshire. archaeal cells have unique properties separating them from the other two domains, bacteria and eukaryota. archaea are further divided into multiple recognized phyla. classification is difficult because most have not been isolated in a laboratory and have been detected only by their gene sequences in environmental samples. it is unknown if these are able to produce endospores. the different arrangements of bacterial flagella: a-monotrichous; b-lophotrichous; c-amphitrichous; d-peritrichous their search for fossils led them west to rich bone beds in colorado, nebraska, and wyoming. from 1877 to 1892, both paleontologists used their wealth and influence to finance their own expeditions and to procure services and dinosaur bones from fossil hunters. by the end of the bone wars, both men had exhausted their funds in the pursuit of paleontological supremacy. marsh's 1896 illustration of the bones of stegosaurus, a dinosaur he described and named in 1877 the type of apparatus used in cooperative pulling experiments can vary. researcher meredith crawford, who invented the experimental paradigm in 1937, used a mechanism consisting of two ropes attached to a rolling platform that was too heavy to be pulled by a single chimpanzee. the standard apparatus is one in which a single string or rope is threaded through loops on a movable platform. if only one participant pulls the string, it comes loose and the platform can no longer be retrieved. only by pulling together in coordination can the participants be successful; success by chance is highly unlikely. some researchers have designed apparatus that involve handles instead of ropes. as for the evolution of cooperation, evidence from cooperative pulling experiments provides support for the theory that cooperation evolved multiple times independently. the fact that basic characteristics of cooperation are present in some mammals and some birds points to a case of convergent evolution. within social animals, cooperation is suspected to be a cognitive adaptation. sketch of two birds in front of a platform with two loops and a string threaded through the loops the causes of the rate spike were not immediately clear. economists later identified its main cause to be a temporary shortage of cash available in the financial system, which was itself caused by two events taking place on september 16: the deadline for the payment of quarterly corporate taxes and the issuing of new treasury securities. the effects of this temporary shortage were exacerbated by declining level of reserves in the banking system. other contributing factors have been suggested by economists and observers. the federal reserve bank of new york building at 33 liberty street as seen from the west. since its 1999 formation, bae has made a number of acquisitions, most notably of united defense and armor holdings of the united states, and has sold its shares in airbus, astrium, ams and atlas elektronik. it is involved in several major defence projects, including the lockheed martin f-35 lightning ii, the eurofighter typhoon, the astute-class submarine, and the queen elizabeth-class aircraft carriers. bae systems is listed on the london stock exchange's ftse 100 index. financial mismanagement and internal disputes led to delays in the project. by the time brookwood cemetery opened in late 1854, a number of other cemeteries had opened nearer to london or were in the process of opening. while some parishes in london did arrange for the lnc to handle the burials of their dead, many preferred to use nearer cemeteries. the lnc had anticipated handling between 10,000 and 50,000 burials per year, but the number never rose above 4,100 per year, and in its first 150 years of operations only 231,730 burials had been conducted. buying the land for brookwood cemetery and building the cemetery and railway had been very expensive, and by the time the cemetery opened the lnc was already on the verge of bankruptcy. the lnc remained solvent by selling surplus parts of its land, but as the land had been chosen for its remoteness, sales were low. from the 1880s the lnc began a more aggressive programme to maximise its income. the process for the sale of surplus land was improved, resulting in increased income. the lnc redeveloped its lands at hook heath into housing and a golf course, creating a new suburb of woking and providing a steady income from rentals. after an 1884 ruling that cremation was lawful in england the lnc also took advantage of its proximity to woking crematorium by providing transport for bodies and mourners on its railway line and after 1910 by interring ashes in a dedicated columbarium. the lnc also provided the land for a number of significant military cemeteries and memorials at brookwood after both world wars. in 1941 london necropolis railway station, the lnc's london railway terminus, was badly damaged by bombing, and the london necropolis railway was abandoned. a group of people gambling on a flat tombstone. scattered human remains are strewn on the ground around them. london churchyards were squalid and overcrowded. existing graves were regularly exhumed to free burial space, and the unearthed remains left scattered. map of a city surrounded by small cemeteries, and two larger proposed cemeteries slightly further out. a railway line runs from the city to a single large cemetery to the southwest, a long way further out. a railway line runs through open countryside. on one side of the railway line is a formally arranged garden based around a building with a tall spire, and on the other are a number of small plots of land linked by a curving road. it was fitting enough that the largest city in the world should have, as it will now have, the largest cemetery in the world. grassy area lined with giant sequoia trees, with occasional scattered gravestones in the decades following the demise of the lnc, much of the cemetery began to revert to wilderness. the former superintendent's office, which served as the lnc's office from 1947 to 1975 diamond is a solid form of the element carbon with its atoms arranged in a crystal structure called diamond cubic. another solid form of carbon known as graphite is the chemically stable form of carbon at room temperature and pressure, but diamond is metastable and converts to it at a negligible rate under those conditions. diamond has the highest hardness and thermal conductivity of any natural material, properties that are used in major industrial applications such as cutting and polishing tools. they are also the reason that diamond anvil cells can subject materials to pressures found deep in the earth. the extreme hardness of diamond in certain orientations makes it useful in materials science, as in this pyramidal diamond embedded in the working surface of a vickers hardness tester. at room temperature, diamonds do not react with any chemical reagents including strong acids and bases. extremely rare purple fluorescent diamonds from the ellendale l-channel deposit in australia the most familiar uses of diamonds today are as gemstones used for adornment, and as industrial abrasives for cutting hard materials. the markets for gem-grade and industrial-grade diamonds value diamonds differently. a large rectangular pink multifaceted gemstone, set in a decorative surround. the decoration includes a row of small clear faceted gemstones around the main gem's perimeter, and clusters of gems forming a crest on one side. the crest comprises a three-pointed crown faced by two unidentifiable animals. the hardness of diamond and its ability to cleave strongly depend on the crystal orientation. therefore, the crystallographic structure of the diamond to be cut is analyzed using x-ray diffraction to choose the optimal cutting directions. most diamonds contain visible non-diamond inclusions and crystal flaws. the cutter has to decide which flaws are to be removed by the cutting and which could be kept. six crystals of cubo-octahedral shapes, each about 2 millimeters in diameter. two are pale blue, one is pale yellow, one is green-blue, one is dark blue and one green-yellow. synthetic diamonds of various colors grown by the high-pressure high-temperature technique cathodoluminescence image of a diamond, taken in a scanning electron microscope locke wrote the letters that would eventually become some thoughts for an aristocratic friend, but his advice had a broader appeal since his educational principles suggested anyone could acquire the same kind of character as the aristocrats for whom locke originally intended the work. amador valley high school is a comprehensive public high school in pleasanton, california. it is one of three high schools in the pleasanton unified school district, along with foothill high school and village high school. architectural diagram of amador valley joint union high school. image shows the auditorium on the bottom in blue, with additional rooms on the top in beige, including the woodworking floor, a classroom, a gymnasium, and dressing rooms. 1926 sanborn maps architectural drawing of amador valley joint union high school, showing the amador theatre, the gymnasium with dressing rooms, and two classrooms. further information: amador valley joint union high school district v. state board of equalization and lassonde v. pleasanton unified school district three high school students stand beside a beautiful creek. two hold a net in the stream, the third points towards the water. a group of amador valley students studies aquatic wildlife with project creek watch at arroyo valle. a female high school basketball player dribbles the ball towards the camera with a focused look on her face. behind her trail basketball members from her team and the opposing team. all are running towards the camera. the amador valley varsity girls' basketball team faces rival team foothill high school. students of amador valley "we the people" team testify in a simulated congressional hearing. the marching band and color guard perform "heroes, gods, and mythical creatures" at the 2008 wba championships. a united states navy diver guides the amador valley auv during the international robosub competition at the naval information warfare center pacific in san diego. the festival was the brainchild of columbia university physicist brian greene and his wife, emmy award-winning television journalist tracy day. it was held in partnership with major new york city cultural and academic institutions, including columbia university, new york university and the metropolitan museum of art. alan alda, tracy day and brian greene at the press conference announcing the 2008 festival panel discussion on "what it means to be human" at the 2008 world science festival a calm body of water is in the foreground. the shoreline is about 200 metres away. to the left, close to the shore, are three tall gum trees; behind them on an incline are ruins, including walls and watchtowers of light-coloured stone and brick, what appear to be the foundations of walls, and grassed areas. to the right lie the outer walls of a large rectangular four-storey building dotted with regularly spaced windows. forested land rises gently to a peak several kilometres back from the shore. tasmania's port arthur penal settlement is one of eleven unesco world heritage-listed australian convict sites. the 1942 bombing of darwin, the first of over 100 japanese air raids on australia during world war ii fitzroy island, one of the 600 islands within the main archipelago of the great barrier reef legislature: the bicameral parliament, comprising the monarch, the senate, and the house of representatives; australia is a member of several defence, intelligence and security groupings including the five eyes intelligence alliance with the united states, united kingdom, canada and new zealand; the anzus alliance with the united states and new zealand; the aukus security treaty with the united states and united kingdom; the quadrilateral security dialogue with the united states, india and japan; the five power defence arrangements with new zealand, the united kingdom, malaysia and singapore; and the reciprocal access defence and security agreement with japan. australia hosts a diversity of religions. st mary's cathedral in sydney belongs to the roman catholic church, australia's largest religious denomination. an 1898 cartoon of a train in bavaria. woman: smoking isn't allowed in this compartment, it clearly says "for non-smokers" outside! smoker: but we aren't smoking outside, we're smoking inside! at the end of wwii, a dutch child celebrates liberation by smoking a cigarette. black and white photo of a seated man wearing a suit, surrounded by several young ugandan men. anaemia may develop in several ways: iron malabsorption may cause iron deficiency anaemia, and folic acid and vitamin b12 malabsorption may give rise to megaloblastic anaemia. a small proportion of people have abnormal coagulation because of vitamin k deficiency and are at a slight risk of abnormal bleeding. coeliac disease has been linked with many conditions. in many cases, it is unclear whether the gluten-induced bowel disease is a causative factor or whether these conditions share a common predisposition. immunofluorescence staining pattern of endomysial antibodies on a monkey oesophagus tissue sample the hosts acknowledged that the keeping of a story bible works best for those authors who are writing a series. one standalone book can be read by a proofreader or alpha reader and they can catch your continuity errors. you could potentially keep a story bible for yourself for a standalone book, but it might not be as necessary as when writing a series. first and foremost, a big thank you goes out to dr. simone muench for generously providing refreshments, setting up the digital projection of the jet fuel review site, and for simply taking time out of her busy day to appear at the reading. thanks, also, to tonya peterson for bringing refreshments on very short notice. what you should avoid: a proofreader. proofreading is a base level kind of edit. when editing a manuscript, you should really look at higher level problems like character arcs, plot lines, and other broad issues. i completely agree with this because changing the position of a comma on the fifteenth page of your story is not going to help if you have a character who completely drifts out of your novel or a plot line that dies off before the end of the book. proofreading can come later on, so if you have a proofreader in your life, let them read your manuscript later on. this post has been written by steve papesh, an education major and chinese minor at lewis university. steve is interning with the jet fuel review this semester and will be contributing blog posts periodically. for many beginning writers, the fantasy of being able to write full time is simply a daydream that we turn between dealing with our boss and avoiding work. how is it that professional writers are able to make that seemingly impossible leap from part time muser to full time author? once you have done some writing, the next point that mcduling advocates is to market your writing. according to mcduling, about half of your time should be spent on promoting your work. after all, it does not matter how good your writing is if no one has ever seen it. it is in this vein of practicality that mcduling also states that a professional writer should know what it is that editors are looking for. writers need to know their audience and be able to meet deadlines just like any other person who has a professional career. give your ideas that safe space. find a place or a state of mind that you know is conducive to creative incubation and spend some time there each week. it may take time, but this is the only way your ideas will ever be ready to come out on the page. on tuesday, steve wrote a community discussion post to talk about the issue of being pigeon-holed as a writer. often, we can make assumptions about people if they continue to write within the same genre consistently for all of their writing projects. steve raises the questions of how to break out of your expected genre and what benefit there might be to trying something new in your writing. i do not particularly recall the details of the initiation ceremony because, as my mother recounted more than once in later years, i was running a high fever all through the journey and the ceremony. i do, however, remember being carried around a shrine several times in the darkness of the oil-lamp night, accompanied by throngs of men and women singing to mridanga, harmonium, and cymbals. kabir had been a foundling raised by a muslim couple who made their living by weaving. born and raised in what is now varanasi in north india, he grew up as an illiterate weaver who composed poetry and songs out of the vernacular he spoke and experiences of daily life he lived. the man who finds his homeland sweet is still a tender beginner; he to whom every soil is as his native one is already strong; but he is perfect to whom the entire world is as a foreign land. the tender soul has fixed his love on one spot in the world; the strong person has extended his love to all places; the perfect man has extinguished his. the hosts said that a major trope of urban fantasy is finding the real story behind elements of reality or creating explanations for urban legends or myths that we have. for instance, there might be an alien origin story for a monument that stands today in washington, dc. that kind of story would fall under urban fantasy. as the podcast came to a close, the hosts of writing excuses acknowledged that there was a lot more to cover in terms of urban fantasy. therefore, there will be a more instructional podcast regarding urban fantasy in the coming weeks! i, for one, look forward to it. all american people have the tendency to question who they are at some point in their life and question the faith that they believe in. many americans experiment with different religions throughout their life in an attempt to see which is best for them and what makes most sense to them. what interested me most about this text is how concerned goodman brown is about other people, like goody cloyse, seeing how his faith appears. why does he care so much? goodman brown bases most of his religious values and decisions off of those of the members of his community. since he believes in the faith that those around him do rather than his own, his faith is weak and easily altered. another way in which we can become static in our writing could be by only writing in a specific genre because we have been told that we are good at it. i, for one, find that much of my writing is humorous and surreal but, if a writer only ever writes in one genre, it is possible that they could miss out on discovering a new area or genre to explore. therefore, through these stories the themes of doubt and the major american motif of finding the individual self through explorations of new territories is relevant to american literature. the idea of starting over and finding place in a new environment whether it be in a new community or a new place, we struggle to find our individual self and stay true to it once we have explored our inner self. this post has been written by lucas sifuentes, a film minor at lewis university. he will be posting each week about something that is film-related. again, the need for characters to complete each other and fulfill a need in each other seems to be the most important thing mentioned by all of the hosts. authors need an emotional connection between their characters and with the readers so that they care about the characters and their relationship. so, take some time for yourself. lock yourself in your bedroom for a few hours or go for a long drive and see if some literary inspiration comes to you. see, now i could write a blog post about how i just potentially taught someone a completely useless zoological fact. so start thinking about what you know and what you have taught to others, and have some fun writing. by the time rubber started i was having trouble staying awake and becoming both mentally and physically fatigued with the task of watching these movies. yet there were still these great moments that would happen when something would stir the audience so much that it was impossible not to get caught up in the moment of gleeful bliss before settling back into the tiresome task of waiting for the film to end. i ended up staying up through the entire set of films and am glad i did, and would do so again. the lure of marathons is that they represent something that not every person could do, and although by the end of it you may feel less than your best you are left with a sense of superhuman accomplishment, good memories, and strong feelings towards the healthiness of moderation. the hosts each weighed in on just how many edits a typical book goes through. the average answer from the panel was six. one host did say three because he got bored and that would most likely be my answer as well because, as i said, editing makes me crazy. but, you can send it to other folks for feedback and more editing. outsource your editing jobs to friends and fellow writers to get it away from you and to get it in front of fresh eyes. this call is backed up by the big development ngos including oxfam, save the children and one. business leaders, such as mark moody-stuart the former head of oil giant shell, also support a measure that would be cheap and provide companies with valuable information on their business partners. transparency over who ultimately owns and controls companies will expose dirty money and hidden identities to daylight, helping to curb the corruption and tax evasion that keeps poor countries poor. the big diamond and timber fuelled civil wars that ravaged west africa in the mid-90s are now over, although liberia, sierra leone and angola all face real challenges in harnessing their resource wealth to lift the current generations from poverty without wrecking the environment. and natural resources are still fuelling conflict and unrest in countries like the democratic republic of congo, cambodia and central african republic, to name a few. uganda is at a critical stage in its development. it stands on the verge of a huge windfall from its fledgling oil, gas and mining sectors, money which could help lift the population out of poverty if properly managed. it could also entrench corruption and concentrate power in the hands of an increasingly repressive elite. upholding basic rights and freedoms is crucial to avoiding the resource curse that has blighted so many other african countries. the lacey act and the european timber regulation, which also bans illegal wood imports, have forced chinese wood product manufacturers to consider legality issues when exporting to the us and europe. however, the majority of the timber that flows into china stays in china to meet the growing demands of chinese consumers. if the chinese government is to prevent the large-scale import of illegal timber, it will have to introduce its own legislation. the chinese government should introduce legislation that prohibits the import of illegal timber. this would help protect chinese companies conducting legitimate business, enable exporters to comply with us and eu legislation and protect forests in producer countries. it would empower chinese customs and other law enforcement officials, who are currently unable to act, even when confronted with imports of timber that were clearly illegally harvested. at the suifenhe conference, global witness was not alone in calling for china to introduce its own legislation prohibiting illegal timber imports. the same point was made by others, including furniture retailer ikea and the director of the suifenhe customs authority. this is why global witness is campaigning for an end to anonymous companies. we want countries around the world to create publicly accessible registers of the real living people who ultimately own and control companies and trusts. these prizes will give a rocket boost to our work. they will help us continue our investigations, report on matters in the public interest, and launch hard hitting campaigns that challenge vested interests and change the system. hagl also has large plantations across the border in southern laos, where communities tell a familiar story of human rights violations, forest destruction and food insecurity. however, following a recent spate of arrests and the disappearance of a prominent member of lao civil society, international and lao ngos feel under too much pressure to support the affected communities to also submit a complaint to the ifc. both the dinant and hagl cases highlight the inability of the ifc to track where its finances end up or to take action when things go wrong. which in turn raises some pretty big questions over how it can know if its money is actually helping or hindering development. the peace process offers an opportunity for south sudanese leaders to begin mending the holes, but to do so, they must prove that they are serious about turning strong words into real action. the government of south sudan must make tangible commitments to implementing oil laws immediately, while aid donors should use their influence to ensure legislation is not endlessly delayed. both must ensure that discussions around oil management include governors from the oil producing states, committing them to anti-corruption measures too. finally, the south sudanese government must prioritise the security of civilians alongside that of the oilfields. fighting has been fierce in the oil states of unity and upper nile, and abuses by government forces widespread, leaving thousands of survivors destitute and vulnerable. heavy-handed control by an influx of military forces poses a huge risk to local populations, including further human rights violations, displacement and, ultimately, more instability. f deals were done in the open, much of this could be avoided. communities would be able to see who was interested in acquiring their land and what they stood to lose. if leasehold terms or laws were broken, getting compensation and making sure those responsible were held to account would be easier. meanwhile governments would be able to better weigh the potential social and environmental benefits of land deals versus the costs. in other words, the trade could be regulated like most others. we are a long way from this now, but help is at hand. in 2012, dealing with disclosure, a report by global witness, the international land coalition and the oakland institute set out for the first time what tools governments, companies and citizens can harness to ensure that land investment is open and fair. the people of turkmenistan have not had much luck with their leaders in recent years, or much help from outside. in 2006 we wrote about the european commission turning a blind eye to corruption, lack of transparency and poor human rights in this repressive police state, in a bid to secure future gas deals. global witness first started calling publicly for an end to anonymous companies in 2009 in a report i wrote called undue diligence: how banks do business with corrupt regimes. it had a series of case studies showing, well, banks doing business with corrupt regimes, resulting in poverty and sometimes conflict in their countries. plenty of these stories included the use of companies whose ownership was hidden. we soon realised that anonymous companies were everywhere that dirty money was being moved: fraud, tax evasion, sanctions busting, secret oil and mining deals, horsemeat masquerading as beef, you name it. of course, there are those companies with fiendishly complicated cross-border structures in which the legal shareholding and real, beneficial ownership are separated, and in which companies are owned by more and more companies in other countries, like a series of russian dolls. it will come as somewhat of an embarrassment to cameron and his team then, that just two weeks before the premiere of years of living dangerously, schwarzenegger was found to be part owner of an investment company financing mass deforestation. the government pushback is not limited to the press. in september of last year, 17 citizens of grand bassa county were beaten by police and company security forces while protesting the encroachment onto their land of the equatorial palm oil plantation. in a similar incident in february, two people in sinoe county were arrested after asking questions about the expansion of the golden veroleum palm oil planation. in the same month, a community leader was fired from his government job after holding meetings where people aired grievances about a logging company operating in their forest. the government has also taken impressive steps towards improving natural resource governance, in part at the behest of liberian civil society groups. in february, the ministry of justice indicted eight former officials for facilitating illegal logging licenses, a scandal that came to light thanks to research conducted by liberian ngos and global witness. then, earlier this month, the president acknowledged the demands of community members who had protested about the equatorial palm oil plantation and stated that the company would not be allowed to expand onto their land without community approval. the importance of good natural resource management is hardly a new concept in development policy. for years, officials have paid lip service to the need for transparency and accountability, and bemoaned the fact that millions in technical assistance can be instantly undermined by a backdoor handshake or the flick of a pen on an ill-gotten oil or mining contract. and yet, targeted, informed, and consistent aid programs on this issue are few and far between. the meeting of the gpedc is a major opportunity to address this hole in development co-ordination. it should be used to rally some of the most influential people in the world around a new, more effective strategy for natural resource governance. if governments are serious about using aid to end poverty, they must speak out on this issue and make concrete commitments to dealing with it. now is the perfect chance to make it happen. indeed, the puzzle of who is getting what from marange is now so mystifying it even appears to be confusing the zimbabwean government. some companies have denied all knowledge of this trust while others claimed they had committed to much smaller sums. the former minister of youth, indigenisation and economic empowerment, and of mines and mining development waded in, with a very public spat developing over what was or was not agreed and the former accusing the diamond companies of dishonesty. powerful elites and their lobbyists continue to play down the risks and convince us that things like fossil fuels and tropical timber are critical to the world economy, so we continue on the same path despite the growing chorus of opinion that it will lead us to disaster. it is time for governments to act. in december officials will gather again in lima, peru for the latest round of climate talks. unless they change their habits of recent years and act decisively to protect the environment and those most reliant on it, we will once again be left counting the rising cost of their inaction in human lives. the un declaration on human rights defenders recognises the importance and legitimacy of people who promote and defend human rights, as well as their need for better protection. what makes environmental defenders distinctive is how they link issues of health, life and freedom from oppression to the protection of the natural environment that sustains them. vietnam is by no means alone here, and could seek inspiration from a number of governments who have already acted to shield their companies from such risk beyond their own borders. a) observe host country laws and regulations concerning environmental and social protection b) respect the cultural heritage of local communities, undertake consultations and share key project information with potentially affected people, in accordance with the international standard of free, prior and informed consent. c) undertake rigorous environmental and social impact assessments prior to contracts being secured and cancel projects where potential negative impacts are found to be too great d) carry out due diligence with potential local partners, to evaluate their track record for environmental and social protections, and corruption. this case raises such big corruption questions that the deal is being investigated by authorities in the uk, italy and nigeria. this is really promising not least because companies are getting behind it alongside governments. the only problem is that a group of big oil companies keep trotting out the same rhetoric to try and block the laws, or weaken them to the point of uselessness. shell is foremost amongst the blockers, and seems determined to protect the status quo. while the laws were being proposed in the eu, its lobbyists were hard at work behind the scenes, pushing for changes that would result in the kind of payments they made in nigeria remaining hidden. and in the uk, despite the fact that the eu directive is hard law and is being championed internationally by the prime minister, shell continues pushing to slow down its implementation. thankfully, eu member states have no leeway to change the directive, contrary to what shell and other oil companies are saying. but we expect oil lobbyists to continue pushing for delays. with so much at stake, shell should say exactly what they knew about where the money for opl 245 was going, and should stop lobbying to try to weaken laws in the us that require these sorts of payments to be made public. in practice, this can mean doing quite simple things. three weeks ago, we published a report exposing how killings of environmental activists are increasing dramatically. its findings are shocking and got a lot of international media attention, including the front page of the huffington post in the us, al jazeera, the guardian, tv globo and others. there are plenty of other cases we work on which would benefit from the same approach and we hope to do much more of this in future. the good news is that we can still save our forests. first though, we need to unpack and dispel the fictions sold to us by the logging industry. in place we need a new paradigm that sees forests not as a source of timber that can be liquidated for easy cash, but as a global lifeline in need of defence. taking the profit out of plunder, as called for by the 2014 africa progress panel report, will require reducing the demand for products that cause the destruction of tropical forests, an end to hidden subsidies for industrial logging in aid packages, and more stringent monitoring of private forest finance. this power must then be shifted back to forest communities, through the recognition of their land rights and the promotion of new models of forest management that are local, legitimate and truly sustainable. the work of forest and land defenders like wutty is becoming ever more deadly. as we assembled comprehensive records from around the world, we found that at least two forest and land defenders are being killed per week. some were environmental protesters; others were just ordinary people living on a desirable plot of land. earlier this week the wall street journal and the british human rights organisation, raid revealed that the us hedge fund och-ziff capital management group has been one of the main financial backers of dan gertler, a businessman at the centre of a string of controversial mining deals in the democratic republic of congo. the och-ziff revelations show that these congolese deals were facilitated by major players in the global financial hubs of new york and london, often through subsidiaries in tax and secrecy havens, such as the british virgin islands. this is an example of how the secrecy afforded to companies in tax havens has been used to siphon off billions of dollars from some of the poorest countries in the world. publicly disclosing the real owners of companies would help ensure that we know who benefits from natural resource deals. it should no longer be acceptable that anonymous company ownership allows a few secretive companies and individuals to benefit at the expense of ordinary citizens. och-ziff said in march that it is under investigation by us authorities for its african investments; this investigation should help shed new light on these deals and must have the full cooperation of tax havens. as another piece of advice, the hosts said to focus on your cover and be professional to present your work online. the cover will be small on amazon, so make a good impression with the image. you should choose something that gets people talking and interested in the book. to make a good impression with your cover, find someone who knows graphic design and use them. some commenters on boingboing said the post was insensitive to all of the human loss that has occurred in japan. i can understand that, and yet the image of floating books and submerged bookshelves makes me think of all of those people who once read those books and may never read again. or of the children who used to frequent the library and may no longer have parents. technology can make the building of a manuscript a tragedy or a convenience. if you compose a draft and revise the draft without retaining the original rough copy then you cannot show your audience your writing process. this is tragic because it is not a manuscript that has been manipulated by the writer. however, if you create your drafts and a final version, save them to a cd, make handwritten comments on your copies, and then create a computer and physical folder for your manuscript. this is a great practice to get in the habit of following. place each physical folder you create in your filing cabinet, and you may revisit the work later or seek publication. i will say first that this picture is geared more toward fiction or poetry writers. up until now, prompt wednesday has had a bias toward non-fiction writing, but this is definitely a fictional picture. unless, of course, you have a memory that you might associate with this kind of picture and that you think you write an essay about. in any case, here is the picture prompt for today. in summation for today: seek out new experiences from which to draw for your writing, use everything that you know and have known for your work, and write to your own tastes first. so, while discussing what relevant topics should be included in a university blog, most said that charlie sheen is the only train wreck worth writing about. at first i thought that it was unfair to judge sheen, and then i started watching his interviews on youtube. as a student of psychology, it seems slightly immoral to laugh at a drug addict that likely suffers from some sort of mental disorder. however, his ill-advised interview circuit reveals something deeper than addiction; sheen seems to know exactly what he is doing. it may be just me, but his actions seem so calculated. as a television actor, ratings will make or break your career. sheen, no stranger to negative media attention, has seen a rise and fall in ratings based on his personal antics. if you look at ratings of two and a half men before the allegations of abuse from his ex, brooke mueller, viewership was dropping. however, once the media circus began, two and a half men shot back through the roof. sheen is clearly not a stupid man, as he is exploiting his personal condition to draw more attention to his celebrity status. once in a creative writing class i was asked to write a poem from the persona of a ballerina from broadway who could no longer dance. like many guys, i did not know anything about ballet so when i was asked to write from this persona i was none too happy. i spent hours studying terminology, different ballets, and anything else i could find to help me understand what ballet is all about. even though the persona was alien to me, i believe that the poem i wrote was at least believable. i may never try to publish the poem that i wrote, but i may be able to apply what i learned to another piece that i write. who knows when it will be useful to know something about what a pas de deux is or what the effects of a torn acl ligament are. research helps us broaden our horizons as people and subsequently as writers. there are some writers who have used their dreams, or even truly rely upon their dreams for inspiration in order to compose. naomi epel wrote a book titled writers dreaming, and it discusses twenty-six writers who talk about their dreams and their writing process. other suggestions by authors are to drink before you go to bed, or set the alarm to wake you up a couple of times every night so you can write down your dreams at various times of the night. the best suggestion is to keep a journal next to your bed and before you even let your feet touch the floor, grab your pen and notebook and write down the dreams that you had the night before. do this every morning and you will be surprised what new material you have to write about! libraries have been there for me reliably as companions throughout my entire life. when i was younger, we lived about two or three blocks from the local library and would walk up there on summer days. back then, summer meant neon shorts, individual bottles of orange soda, and bike rides to the library. our library there was small, but so was i. i had plenty to choose from and that, i will always remember, is the library where i first took out a harry potter book. in those days, i loved nothing more than to pile up a stack of chunky, hardback books and watch as the librarian swiped each one under the laser book scanner. what would those summer afternoons have been without adequate libraries? discussion: what do you think about libraries? do you consider them important institutions even in the modern world? what are your library stories from childhood or from more recent years? as much as i love books, i confess that i do not treat them well. a book in my library will inevitably end up with a broken spine, dog ears, and much illegible marginalia. i interact with the text to the point of abusing it. reading e-books on my ipad has allowed me to interact with the text even more but without the physical abuse and damage to the text. this week, i took a prompt from their site that was posted about a week ago because i thought it sounded interesting. the prompt is: write about a place where you could not happily live. pinsky writes about the sharp contrast between sidney and dowson. sidney, he writes, includes innocent images in his poem and talks about a sweet, young girl. in contrast, dowson talks about prostitutes in his poem as well as drinking. pinsky observes the different levels of love that we encounter in each of these poems. both poems can be found at slate as well as audio versions read by robert pinsky. i love coming across things by accident. i consider myself a very self-aware, cognizant person, but every now and again i just completely miss something and then come across it through a happy accident. i have several examples of this kind of thing, but the most recent and most fun example is that of saskia hamilton. i love this idea for collaboration and i think the album is simply superb. but, you may be asking yourself, where does saskia hamilton come in? the moral of this story is to always look up interesting sounding names or information. you might find something that you can use on your blog. i know of a local band that recently penned and recorded an entire album based on buckminster fuller. looking up interesting information can lead to creative breakthroughs! to celebrate world environment day, hundreds of freetonians came together to plant a tree in honor of the more than 1,000 people killed and missing after devastating landslides and floods tore through freetown less than a year ago. the landslide and flood waters ripped through the capital city with tremendous energy, destroying everything in its path. it was reported that a huge wave of boulders, building debris and mud cascaded down the river channel immediately after the landslide. the disaster affected more than 6,000 people and caused significant destruction and damage to critical infrastructure. multi-city hazard and risk assessments for the cities of freetown, makeni and bo are close to completion. the reports will help to identify key hotspots that are highly exposed to flooding, landslides, sea level rise and coastal erosion, and provide a menu of options to manage these risks. increased computing power and availability of big data have paved the way for new technologies that predict repayment behavior using information different from the traditionally gathered. data from utility bills, tax payments, employment records or even mobile phones or social networks such as facebook is currently being used to this end. based on several rd methods around the efl score threshold, we first study how effective the efl tool was in increasing access to credit. if lack of credit information is not a barrier for smes looking for loans, smes with an efl score below the threshold could potentially obtain financing elsewhere, in which case loan use may not differ around the efl score threshold. in a second exercise, we analyze if smes that were offered a loan based on the efl tool exhibit worse repayment behavior than smes that were offered a loan based on the conventional screening method. since loan applicants who lack credit history may benefit more from technologies such as the efl tool, we classify our loan applicants in two groups: thin files vs thick files. while the equifax scores of thick file applicants are based on their credit history, the scores of thin file applicants are based on other sources of information due to the absence of credit history. to measure repayment behavior we first look at the fraction of applicants who had a loan in arrears for more than 60 days within the 24 months following the loan application. thin file applicants screened by the efl tool were as likely to be in arrears as thin file applicants screened by the conventional method. however, for thick file applicants, being screened by the efl tool increased the probability of being in arrears. overall, we find that psychometric credit scoring appears to be a viable screening method for loan applicants without a credit history: they are more likely to obtain loans, but do not repay worse, than under the traditional screening method. our findings also highlight the power of credit bureau information: an applicant with a bad credit history is likely to have repayment problems in the future, no matter what the psychometric score says. the use of psychometric tools in sme finance and other related topics will be discussed in the upcoming overview course of financial sector issues of the world bank. we encourage you to click here for information about the course and how to register. first, pathways for peace aims to shift our focus towards preventing conflict - rather than responding once lives have been destroyed. representing a people who experience the enormous costs of conflict every day, my government knows that this is not only the smart thing but also the right thing to do. the increased momentum this report can generate for all actors to work together to prevent such suffering in the future gives me real hope for somalia and for our globe. second, the study calls for deeper partnerships between all international actors to advance national pathways to peace. this will make an important difference in somalia. we have been able to work with a wide range of international partners. however, a lack of coordination has often meant that this support is less than the sum of its parts. second, we need to address women and youth like we address other issues that are key to peace: with consistent and dedicated attention and resources. one important implication is the need to invest in the capacity of government actors charged with leading and co-ordinating relevant activities, such as my own ministry. as highlighted in a recent oecd study on donor support to gender equality, this is an important gap across fragile and conflict-affected countries. in somalia there are key windows of opportunity to translate the prevention agenda into action. in particular, the preparations for our elections in 2020-21 and the on-going constitutional review provide unique openings to ensure an inclusive society for generations to come. my ministry aims to help seize these, including by enabling diverse groups of women to develop joint demands and strategies to make their voices heard. we also have significant opportunities to strengthen co-ordination between all national and international actors: working groups established for each pillar of the national development plan, including pillar 9 on human rights and gender equality, provide a forum where government, civil society and the international community can coordinate their work, develop joint strategies and serve as champions for more coherent, transformative and far-sighted support. constance senekal, a teacher by profession, initially ventured into pig farming to sustain her family. under sadp, constance also received training, from the ministry of agriculture and food security, on how to care for her stock and market her products. one of the media she uses to reach a wide audience is facebook. she says that social media has worked better for her than traditional media, such as radio. driving around romania, one sees two countries: one urban, dynamic, and integrated with the eu; the other rural, poor and isolated. bucharest is a bustling metropolis with thriving modern services and a higher income per capita than the average for the european union. to keep growing and converging to eu levels of living, romania will have to make some changes. the skills of the workforce have not kept up with the increasing sophistication of the economy. romanian exports have been switching from labor intensive low-technology sectors to more advanced automotive, machinery, electronic equipment and ict. the state of infrastructure is abysmal: romania ranks 102 out of 137 countries in the quality of transport infrastructure. hamstrung by poor planning and weak public administration, romania is the only eu country that was not able to use the flood of structural funds it has received since accession. one in five people lack access to potable water, and a third live without access to a flush toilet. the roma face especially difficult circumstances, with an employment rate of just 28 percent and a poverty rate that reaches 70 percent. a combination of relatively generous maternity benefits and lack of part-time jobs has had the unintended effect of keeping women out of the labor force. whether they are in or outside the labor force, entrenched gender norms continue to place the entire burden of caring for children and the elderly on women. many workers are trapped in low-productivity farming and other informal activities, leading to both underutilization and misallocation of labor. as such, the transition to more productive jobs has been sluggish. so, with all of these contradictions, can romania still be proud of its past achievements? looking back, the answer is certainly yes. in less than a generation, romania has built an open society, consolidated democracy, and become better off than ever before. looking ahead, however, romanians ought to be concerned. unless the country remedies its governance failures, economic growth will become more volatile, and prosperity will be shared even less. a truly prosperous and inclusive romania should mean that nobody is left behind. earlier this month david lynch announced via a radio interview that the upcoming high definition rerelease of his infamous 1986 film blue velvet would include footage that was once thought to be long lost. in the same interview he expressed how much he was looking forward to seeing some of the moments again from the scenes, as he had not seen them since they originally hit the cutting room floor; but that the main driving force for including these in the film was the internet. being a huge lynch fan myself, i found myself instantly infused with a mix of anxiousness and excitement for a couple of reasons. the first being that i absolutely love blue velvet; and although lynch has proven before in his films like mulholland drv and inland empire that a single scene has the power to stand apart from the rest of a film, i am completely happy with blue velvet the way it is now and am wary of changing my experience with it. perhaps the biggest reason for this fear comes from around the time i was eight years old sitting underneath a table tent and watching television and i caught the commercial promoting the rerelease of the star wars films with extra footage. the rules for writing a cento are actually quite simple and the form is often a great starting point for new writers. when done correctly, it becomes a way of paying homage to the poet and can bring new life and an added depth to the words of others. one of the hosts talked about the difference between halloween in america and dia de los muertos in mexico. it might be interesting to show the outside or minority culture in your world. i hope that this list has been of help to you, and remember if you want to avoid work badly enough all you need to do is be creative. writing is difficult, but avoiding writing can be a fun and fulfilling creative outlet. remember, where there is a will to get out of your responsibilities there is a way. so, write about a snow day that you remember from your past. or, simply look outside and write a poem or short story based on what you see happening around you. above all, stay indoors and stay warm! for the girls with the highest language ability at baseline, the effects on enrollment and attendance are even stronger, and performance on an english test also rose. being poor often means being hurt twice: kenny and sandefur have a cgd commentary replicating ceq analysis and showing that tax-transfer systems reduce inequality in the rich world, but often exacerbate poverty in the poorest countries. in 4 of the 5 sub-saharan african countries where ceq data is available, the net effect of taxes and transfers was an increase the number of people living below the absolute poverty line. in tanzania, poverty is nearly 20 percent higher due to taxes and transfers. the territorial development policies should start with conducive institutions that expand basic services to all and enable economic agglomeration and spatial mobility of labor. this requires institutional devolution from central to local levels and institutional integration across sectors at all scales. throughout such interventions, it is important to ensure that the benefits extend beyond the communities at both ends of such corridors. it is critical to bring multidimensional benefits to communities along economic corridors through better spatial and land-use planning, improved policy and regulatory frameworks, enabling environment for private sector engagement, strengthened trade and logistics capabilities, secondary and tertiary roads from cities and small towns to the major corridors, and basic infrastructure services. spatially targeted and coordinated interventions can provide tailored solutions to lagging areas for economic growth and improved living standards. such interventions need to be strategically selected by examining the territory as a whole and applying an integrated, cross-sectoral approach to planning and financing. we only have to look at the way we communicate, shop, travel, work and entertain ourselves to understand how technology has drastically changed every aspect of life and business in the last 10 years. sub-saharan africa demonstrated its capacity to harness technology when it embraced the mobile telecom revolution in the 2000s. now again, there is huge potential for digital impact in africa. but to achieve that, the five foundations of a digital economy need to be in place - digital infrastructure, literacy and skills, financial services, platforms, and digital entrepreneurship and innovation. besides connecting people to the digital world, making it easy for people to prove who they are through digital ids is critical. however, 29 percent of adults in sub-saharan africa have no way of identifying themselves. this percentage is much higher among women, youth, and the very poor. digital id programs could allow people to access essential governmental services, much like rwanda is already doing. better digital literacy and skills are another must. at the most basic level, people need digital literacy to interact with the digital world. most workers need digital skills to use technology in daily work. and digital entrepreneurs need specialized coding and programming skills to build online businesses. big tech companies and specialized education companies such as andela are already building these skills in key african markets. we are committed to helping africa build its digital economy, and look forward to working with governments and the private sector to make it happen. figure 2 shows a qualitative graph of the relationship between the costs of a project and its usefulness. dots on the graph indicate projects in various stages of implementation. the red vertical line represents the threshold at which the technology or a product becomes useful or practical. very few project teams will manage to move past this stage and continue the path of linearly increasing investment. this is because most projects will require vastly different resources to evolve from the poc to production. field testing, user focus groups, development of new commercial grade applications, and integration of the new processes to the existing technologies need skills that might be scarce or missing completely in the team that conceived the original idea and brought it to the poc stage. small-scale entrepreneurship is widespread in developing countries, yet very few of these entrepreneurs are successful in growing their businesses beyond initial levels. many constraints play a role, including financial, technical, and informational barriers. yet, even when these barriers are lifted in experimental studies, we do not see the type of growth one would expect if these constraints were truly binding. in addition, many of the interventions studied, especially those targeting managerial and informational barriers, often suffer from low program take-up. consistent with our hypotheses, we find considerable variation in all four dimensions of business aspirations across the sample. more than half the businesses in our sample do not aspire to grow beyond current levels in size, employees, or customers in the next 12 months. moreover, a non-trivial proportion of entrepreneurs fail to imagine an ideal business or to have an idea of how long it will take them to achieve their ideal business. hence, there is considerable heterogeneity in business aspirations. these results also have important implications for policy and future research. in terms of policy, these findings can help reconcile why policies aimed at alleviating physical and human capital constraints are often unsuccessful at spurring business growth. the heterogeneity in our findings makes a strong case for better targeting of business aid programs based on aspirations for growth. given that aspirations are a strong predictor of future behavior, they are likely to complement policies targeting business investment, savings, credit use, and business innovation. we expect that these policies will be more effective for entrepreneurs with higher aspirations for growing their businesses. albania and guyana have successfully implemented the guide, and its implementation is underway in bangladesh, indonesia, malaysia, morocco, and pakistan. the policy makers in guyana have used the guide to identify priorities for policy interventions in the retail payments market. based on the calculation steps described in the guide as well as the finding that the average transaction cost of cash is almost three times that of an electronic transaction, it is estimated that guyana could potentially save up to 1 percent of its gdp if about 75 percent of the current paper-based consumer and government transactions were digitized. albania has applied the results to other work that is underway, including the development of the national retail payments strategy. the point of sale is the most prominent access channel for cash usage and thus, also the one with the most potential to reduce cash transactions and costs. these results constitute only highlights of more detailed indicators and findings to be published soon. the world bank is looking forward to helping other countries implement the guide, so that national authorities use the results to undertake relevant policy reforms in the retail payments space. if there had been a student in that 10th grade class who had additional mathematical knowledge, the self-discovery and discussion lesson might have gone very differently because she or he could have shared that information with peers. but in a fairly homogenous group, particularly where prior knowledge is low, collaboration can be less fruitful because discussions lack the influx of new and different ideas. this is critical to understanding ways to improve the continuous professional development program in ethiopia. collaboration is critical and needs to continue, but in ethiopia and elsewhere, content matters. without a source of new knowledge, a homogeneous group of learners cannot flourish to its full potential, even with the best intentions for collaboration and carefully planned 60 hours of training per year. i am sure my parents focused first on my own health, but they might have also thought about the well-being of others when they incentivized me to not smoke. i am the first of three brothers, so my behavior would likely be an example, good or bad, for my siblings. they might have anticipated that one day i would start a family and tried to prevent second-hand smoke for their grandchildren. they reasoned that by influencing my behavior, it would indirectly benefit others. in economic parlance, we would say that they realized that smoking was creating a negative externality, and they used a financial incentive to help me internalize the cost i would have imposed on others by smoking. in a recent working paper, i review the use of financial incentives to prevent undesirable behaviors. i go beyond smoking to cover other risky behaviors such as unsafe sex and hiv prevention, obesity, alcohol and drug use and even early marriage. i discuss how financial incentives can influence undesirable behaviors through three mechanisms which are linked to the three reasons explaining their prevalence: externalities, bounded rationality and resource constraints. this is where the private sector can help. invest4climate was created by the world bank and the un to bring together public finance, policy reforms and innovative financing to mobilize more private sector funding for climate action. happiness research has long noted the significance of music in overall well-being. access to music and the creative arts is essential in times of chronic stress, violence, and insecurity. music can serve as a balm or comfort to bear trauma or wounds inflicted by poverty, social inequality, and other oppressive life circumstances. one can also use music to shed light on the source of social troubles and find a purpose to bring about change. na-young, a 12-year-old girl from korea, moves to north america with her family, leaving behind her best friend, a boy named hae-sung. though they have a deep friendship that could, with time, develop into more, the opportunity to find out is cut short by their diverging paths. over the course of the next 24 years, we see na-young and hae-sung grow up and, occasionally, reconnect. na-young adapts to her new culture, changing her name to nora, learning english, and, eventually, becoming a playwright. meanwhile, hae-sung completes his military service and becomes an engineer, remaining in korea. their encounters over the years, online and in person, both deepen and fray their bond, making it unclear where their relationship is heading. berkeley public health: how would you describe artificial intelligence to someone coming out of a 20-year coma? jodi halpern: you could say it uses statistical and other models to create pattern recognition programs that are novel but can simulate human behavior, decisions, judgments, etc. so, any system that can offer certain kinds of mental health resources is something to be taken seriously as a potential benefit. my concern is with marketing bots as therapists and trusted companions to people who are depressed or otherwise highly vulnerable. in contrast, there are a lot of different uses in the mental health sphere beyond therapy bots. there are mindfulness apps and cognitive behavioral therapy apps that do not simulate relationships that have millions of users. and then there are actual health systems in the uk and several in the us that are starting to use ai for some medical record-keeping to reduce administrative burdens on mental health providers. jodi halpern md, phd, is professor of bioethics and medical humanities in the ucb-ucsf joint medical program. jh: taking over some electronic medical records, and other administrative tasks with ai is very promising. and so far, the digital companies, creating various mental health applications, have not been held accountable for manipulative behavior. that creates a question of how they can be regulated and how people can be protected. although people tend to talk about these two problems separately, we see them as profoundly connected. in particular, the rise of ai and the epidemic of loneliness present a potentially poisonous pair. we may not have much time before we find ourselves too far down the path to serious emotional and social harm. in the early 2000s, university of chicago psychologist john cacioppo unpacked the logic of loneliness contagion. despite craving more social connection, he argued, the lonelier people become, the more skeptical they become about socializing. they increasingly worry about being rejected or exploited, so they grow wary of others, avoiding them even more. moreover, ai systems are not designed to help people connect. in fact, they often do the opposite. the companies that design and distribute ai systems need to make this a priority before serious damage is done. our research suggests that, whereas loneliness can shorten our lives, high-quality social connections can be lifesaving. they improve well-being, predict healthy longevity, and help people become more virtuous. crucially, ai systems can and should be designed to encourage this. the little dinosaur robot blinks its big, blue eyes and stretches its neck. it tilts its head toward a human, who responds with a pat. the dinosaur closes its eyes in apparent contentment. but when it suddenly freezes, the human flips it over to check its batteries. in the same way, clark and fischer said, people are aware that social robots are made of wires and sensors shaped into a depiction of a character like a little dinosaur, a pet dog, or a human caretaker or tutor. but when people interact with these robots, most are willing to treat them as the characters they depict. people also recognize that the characters are specifically designed to interact with humans, clark said. one of the commentaries that expands on the depiction model comes from another stanford researcher, byron reeves, the paul c. edwards professor of communication in the school of humanities and sciences at stanford university, who studies how people psychologically process media characters and avatars, including robots. they argue that understanding depictions is immediate and fast, and even children understand them from a very young age. reeves said his model is more likely to predict how social robotics technology will progress in the future. while humans may treat social robots like real people or animals, the technology is a long way from replicating actual human interaction, clark and fischer said. this type of overestimation also causes problems with other popular but limited technologies, such as voice assistants and ai chatbots. people who design robots and similar technologies should make the constraints more transparent to users, clark said. clark and fischer said their model not only recognizes the level of work that goes into designing social robots, but also encourages a positive view of the people who interact with them. under the depiction model, a person who treats the little dinosaur robot like a pet is behaving normally. it really comes down to whether social media is causing problems in everyday functioning: is it getting in the way of activities that are so important for mental health? is it causing significant conflict or problems with family, friends? is it getting in the way of schoolwork or academic functioning? in the past few years, people across the world have spent more time on video chat programs like zoom and facetime than ever before. these applications mimic in-person encounters by allowing users to see the people they are communicating with. but unlike in-person communications, these programs often also show users a video of themselves. instead of catching the occasional glimpse of themselves in a mirror, now people are looking at themselves for hours a day. further, experiencing objectification has behavioral and physiological consequences. in the aforementioned study, trying on a swimsuit produced feelings of shame among women, which in turn led to restrained eating. other research has shown that when women think of themselves as objects, they speak less in mixed-gender groups. in a paper we published in 2021, our team showed that women who think of themselves as objects have difficulty recognizing their own body temperature. to test this, we asked women how cold they felt while standing outside nightclubs and bars on chilly nights. we found that the more a woman was focused on her appearance, the less connection there was between the amount of clothing she was wearing and how cold she felt. while we are not aware of any research directly exploring the connection between video meetings and self-objectification, some recent studies suggest that our concerns are well founded. one study found that the more time women who are focused on their looks spent on video calls, the less satisfied they were with their appearance. facial dissatisfaction also seems to play a role in zoom fatigue, with women across all races reporting higher levels of zoom fatigue than their male counterparts. a huge amount of previous research suggests that zoom calls are a perfect storm for self-objectification and that the harms disproportionately affect women. it seems that the already uneven playing field for women is exacerbated in online social interactions. any small reprieve from staring at a literal projection of yourself will be a net gain for your well-being, especially for women. how do you feel when a meeting has been canceled? matt abrahams believes nearly everybody is thrilled. when you really do need to call a meeting, these six tips from abrahams will help you make it worthwhile. a good meeting invitation engages attendees from the beginning and sets the tone for successful collaboration, abrahams says, and it all begins with the name of your meeting. most of us tend to set meetings that suit our own schedules, without considering how refreshed, rushed, or tired the attendees may be, abrahams says. in hybrid meetings where some people are remote and some are in the room, abrahams says, starting with whichever group contains fewer people when seeking input invites more equal contributions. heedless positivity is not the same thing as grounded and realistic optimism. toxic positivity is the belief that people should always remain positive, no matter how dire the circumstances. unfortunately, wishing negativity away is not a great strategy. the avoidance of those hard and real emotions is unproductive and unhealthy. toxic positivity is dysfunctional emotional management, without the full acknowledgment of negative emotions, particularly anger and sadness. these, of course, are part of the full spectrum of human emotions. when organizations encourage and reward people for sharing how they truly feel and make space for expressing emotions beyond the positive ones, it can be an advantage. some may speak up and be encouraged and rewarded for doing so. still, people may speak up and be ignored or, worse, punished. some may never find out how leadership would react to what they are thinking because they do the voice calculus in their head and choose to refrain from speaking up at all. when people choose not to speak up, they tend to hold back for two reasons: fear or apathy. the graph above maps out the continua of fear to safety and apathy to impact. obviously, the top-right quadrant is the sweet spot. when safety and impact are high and maintained, you likely have a healthy speak-up culture. this is not a place of fearlessness, but rather a place where people fear less. the other two quadrants are less straightforward. the top left is characterized by safety, but low impact. you may feel safe to confront a friend, colleague, or boss, but you do not believe doing so would lead to any meaningful change. perhaps this is because of bureaucracy or a larger systemic issue, or because a personal change in habits would be highly improbable. today, mclear continues to be an outspoken advocate for helping leaders and organizations create workplaces and communities where people feel they matter, belong, and can be their full, authentic, and healthiest selves. given the mishmash of remote, hybrid, in-person-but-masked, and other environments we now operate in, the comfort we have in our aforementioned pajamas, and the embarrassment-inducing loss of social skills many of us experienced over the past few years, how do we rebuild these connections? research has shown that regularly experiencing these micromoments of connection is essential to individual flourishing and team effectiveness. they increase our learning behaviors, cognitive function, creativity, engagement, commitment, and performance. these short interactions leave us with a renewed sense of energy and vitality, ready to tackle whatever comes next. plus, it is these small experiences of synchrony that are the building blocks of strong relationships. they can help expand your network of connections and build stronger friendships at work. the united states has never had a woman president. even though many americans believe women are just as deserving as men when it comes to leadership, gender bias remains, making it hard for women to attain the highest office. but, says willer, people need to remember that hillary clinton won the popular vote. if she were running for governor, he argues, she would have won. what would help, willer says, is if male democratic candidates became allies of women candidates and spread the word about their electability, refuting anyone who suggests otherwise. if we could all pitch in to correct misperceptions, perhaps we could give women a fighting chance at becoming president. fostering intellectual humility is a huge aim, to be sure, but one element that can contribute to it is mindfulness, with all the aspects that come with it. if we are that sage on the hill, how can we be truly and fully mindful and avoid the self-satisfied assuredness that proved his undoing? funding for this story was provided by the ggsc as part of our expanding awareness of the science of intellectual humility initiative, supported by the john templeton foundation. learning to respond rather than react to situations, thoughts, emotions, or other people is the essence of mindfulness practice and a powerful means of tapping into our capacity for intellectual humility by lightening the load of the accumulated baggage of a lifetime and our shared human history, as well. as long as our defenses are up or our nervous systems are aroused, we will opt for the relative safety of our familiar and long-held but deeply flawed beliefs about other people and the world in general. from that vantage point in our bubble, we may see intellectually how stuck we are and how an intellectually humble approach would be better, but thinking will not make it so. in the end, like most things worth doing, this process takes time and patience to overcome years or generations of habitual reacting, but the potential for a more harmonious, promising, and joyful society is worth it. on a recent morning, i had the chance to read poems my ninth-grade english students had written about encounters with racism. i was struck by the beauty and poignance of many of their lines. yet i knew, and they knew, that i was also reading to issue them a grade. present learning activities in need-satisfying ways: integrate group work, pair shares, and other everyday ways for students to feel relatedness with peers. give encouraging feedback at formative stages of projects and assignments to support their competence, while allowing as much space as possible for them to make choices and feel autonomous. rely on invitational language: as often as possible, ask students to participate and engage in activities without coercion. let them experience choice and volition and act from that source of motivation. display patience: perhaps hardest of all, we need to model for students our own capacity to feel challenged and persevere through difficult moments. doing our own inner work to cultivate patience and self-compassion supports everything else we do as educators. part of what matters is how relatively autonomous students feel while engaged in an activity. when something is interesting and enjoyable on its own, like writing, drawing, dancing, or solving a math problem, not much else is needed. the drive toward competence and mastery fuels a willingness to take on challenges for their own sake. so the more we allow students to direct their own learning in this state of engagement, aka intrinsic motivation, the more we can step out of the way and serve as adult resources rather than exhausted task masters. that might look like students self-organizing an activity or approach to completing an assignment that then serves as a model for others. similarly, when we offer leadership roles to students so that they learn to effectively run important parts of the classroom, that empowers them to take responsibility and maintain accountability. maybe the young person who appears resistant or unmotivated is just on the brink of a life-changing discovery. when we see students as worthy, competent, and capable, we build trust with them while helping them foster trust in themselves. both kinds of trust support healthy self-confidence, rooted in emotional safety, which then fuels their ability to take risks and grow in the future. across the united states, the number of black educators consistently dwindles. in california, more than 78,000 black students are in schools without any black educators at all. why are black educators leaving the classroom? based on these findings and some of the open responses shared in the survey, here are five recommendations for school leaders and decision makers working to retain black educators. a culturally affirming school leader would recognize how racism and anti-blackness can exist in their school for both students and staff. these leaders may dig into their student outcomes data and provide intentional support to a particular group based on their academic needs, or take steps to ensure staff are being managed fairly and not differently by race or gender. respondents suggested creating inclusivity by intentionally embedding black culture in various aspects of the educational environment. for example, instead of only teaching historical black figures during black history month, intentionally teach black history throughout the school year. an example of affinity spaces for black students is the black student union model. schools with black student unions foster connections between black students and opportunities to explore colleges and careers related to their identities. on one hand, several respondents highlighted the need for educational opportunities for all staff, including implicit bias training, anti-black racism training, and professional development. respondents emphasized the need to enhance the knowledge and skills of all educators to create a more inclusive environment. at the same time, professional development needs to be paired with school site accountability. if a district requires teachers to complete culturally responsive pedagogy professional development, how do we know if this is contributing to the classroom and school culture? accountability could include expanding staff satisfaction surveys with questions that explore how cultural responsiveness and inclusion show up at the school site. accountability could also include creating a rubric to observe the values of professional development in practice throughout the school setting and climate. educators expressed the importance of listening to and supporting black educators, providing pathways for leadership, and recognizing their contributions. many black educators reported not being leveraged as leaders in their school or often being overlooked for roles like instructional coaching or content lead for their department. we recognize this type of overlooking of black educators as a form of anti-blackness and suggest schools and districts be intentional about building the capacity of black educators to assume leadership. for example, schools can create coaching or fellowship opportunities for black educators to learn and assume roles outside of the classroom. this model offers educators a space to learn the different roles inside their school or district. respondents who identified they were the only black educators at their school also shared that they carry the burden of having to speak on behalf of the entire black community. this creates a toxic school environment full of microaggressions for both students and staff. districts can be intentional about hiring black educators by intentionally seeking out partnerships with teaching residencies that have high concentrations of people of color, or supporting black educators in navigating the beginning stages of entering into the profession. and then i became a mother and, thus, began another season of unlearning. in this one, the sacred cow was not individualism or my entitlement to results; it was the arrogance of my own inner life, where i had set up a default expectation that i was the helper, not the helped. but despite the convincing research, it turned out, my daughter was the only one from that wobbly pile on the couch who would enroll at our local, black-majority neighborhood school. a series of essays by people trying to apply the science of a meaningful life to their daily lives. one of the things i learned pretty quickly was that i could be assured that i was probably acting in solidarity, not saviorism, when i was really listening and hearing answers that surprised me. chronic absenteeism is a widespread problem at public schools post-pandemic, and ours is no exception. when i asked our community school manager what she thought might help more of our most marginalized kids show up, i expected to hear about bus passes or alarm clocks. instead, she suggested a very specific type of hair product that is both pricey and feels critical to a few of the older girls on campus. it is this hair product, she said, that will get even unhoused girls through the school gates on monday morning. so i bought it and the community school manager distributed it. this is where the political became really personal. simultaneous to all this growing i was doing in this school community, i was also introduced to the enneagram, a personality typology rooted in colliding ancient traditions, but first popularized by a south american man named oscar ichazo. there are nine types, and each one is characterized by different motivations and struggles. by saving miller and stopping her perpetrator, arndt and jonsson showed moral courage. moral courage is needed when we see that our principles have been violated, social norms were transgressed, or the law was broken. if we act to stop these wrongdoings, despite the risk of backlash, we act morally courageous. in other realms, a student can be morally courageous by confronting bullies, speaking up against discriminating behavior, or reporting cheating. and an employee can act morally courageously by making corporate fraud public. the potential backlash to such acts could, for example, be physical attacks or social exclusion by peers. by standing up in defense of their moral principles despite risks, morally courageous individuals can become a protective force for individuals, a catalyst for social change, and an inspiration for others, thereby making a crucial contribution to the greater good. against this backdrop, we hope for a society where many people show moral courage. instead, however, moral courage is relatively rare. we can probably all recall reports of violent fights, sexual harassment, or racist attacks in which no one intervened, or perhaps we have found ourselves in such situations and remained inactive. witnesses need to notice an incident, and they need to interpret it as wrongdoing. then, witnesses need to assume responsibility, and they need to believe they possess effective intervention skills. ultimately, witnesses need to decide whether to intervene despite potential risks. in a recent study, we investigated the process of moral courage in a so-called experience-sampling study. participants reported wrongdoings they observed in their everyday lives over seven days via prompts on their mobile phones. for any wrongdoing reported, participants then answered questions that addressed the different stages of the model of moral courage. our findings aligned with the model, showing that moral courage was more likely when participants felt responsible and efficacious but less likely when they perceived the situation as risky. taken together, it is essential to understand that moral courage is a complex process and how the process pans out is shaped, to some extent, by our personality and the situation. when we find ourselves in a situation that requires moral courage, it can sometimes be challenging to see its benefits for the greater good. this can be because some forms of moral courage do not feel exactly agreeable. consider our example of moral courage in the context of bullying: calling out classmates or reporting them to a teacher may be all the more difficult because we feel a sense of loyalty toward them. the need to be loyal to those we are close to can conflict with our goal to stand up for fairness or justice and can hold us back. taken together, it is often challenging to show moral courage. but knowing all those things that make it difficult should not discourage us. instead, we can use this knowledge to develop concrete ideas on how to promote moral courage. every person can try to become more morally courageous. however, it does not have to be a solitary effort. instead, institutions such as schools, companies, or social media platforms play a significant role. so, what are concrete recommendations to foster moral courage? establish and strengthen social and moral norms: with a solid understanding of what we consider right and wrong, it becomes easier to detect wrongdoings. institutions can facilitate this process by identifying and modeling fundamental values. for example, norms and values expressed by teachers can be important points of reference for children and young adults. contextualize anger: in the face of wrongdoings, anger should not be suppressed since it can provide motivational fuel for intervention. conversely, if someone expresses anger, it should not be diminished as irrational but considered a response to something unjust. provide and advertise reporting systems: by providing reporting systems, institutions relieve witnesses from the burden of selecting and evaluating individual means of intervention and reduce the need for direct confrontation. show social support: if witnesses directly confront a perpetrator, others should be motivated to support them to reduce risks. when we practice self-compassion, we treat ourselves with the same kindness that we would offer a friend when things go wrong. this includes soothing ourselves when we struggle and motivating ourselves with kindness. whereas a habit of self-criticism increases anxiety and depression, adolescents who practice self-compassion become less anxious and depressed. self-compassion helps kids cope better with challenges and experience more well-being and self-esteem. but just how do we help kids to develop an inner self-compassionate voice? here are three ways to do that. the way we talk to kids makes a big difference in how kids talk to themselves. when kids have repeated experiences of being validated and cared for, the external support can become internalized as an inner self-compassionate voice. research suggests that when parents are supportive and empathic, their kids learn to respond to themselves with kindness. meanwhile, parents who are critical of their children are more likely to have kids who are self-critical. at first, it can feel awkward to treat ourselves with kindness. discomfort is normal any time we learn something new, but this gets better with time. just like it takes practice to learn to ride a bike or do math, so too it takes practice to develop a self-compassionate voice. what roderick has learned in his long career advocating for racial equity and social responsibility provides a framework for this transformation. each chapter describes one of eight dimensions for creating and sustaining environments where students understand the power of civil resistance, the ability to think intelligently about solutions to pressing needs, and the importance of caring for one another along the way. it is both an inspirational manifesto and a clear set of developmentally appropriate teaching strategies, examples of best practices, and links to resources for the classroom and school. there is a misconception in popular culture that we become less imaginative as we get older, and that our capacity for imagination declines over our lifespan. in learning to imagine, cognitive scientist andrew shtulman argues the opposite: all that we learn through our lives serves to enhance our capacity to be imaginative. knowledge actually powers imagination, and, as we live, learn, and reflect, we continue to grow our capacities to imagine throughout our lives. compared to the typical approach, which asks only about how happy you are in your life, average happiness scores from the culturally sensitive approach were higher in countries that put greater value on interdependence, harmony, and relationships. in other words, the typical approach to measuring happiness may land more collectivist countries lower in the ranks than they should be. while this work highlights how important culture is in measuring happiness, there are likely other cultural ideals and worldviews that shape how people think about happiness, as well as other approaches to measuring happiness that should inspire continued research. did steps like those help improve the research? in a paper published in the journal nature human behaviour, university of british columbia professor elizabeth dunn and graduate student dunigan folk reviewed 532 studies of five core practices for a happier life: gratitude, social interaction, exercise, mindfulness, and experiencing nature. in one study of over 500 middle school students across two academic years, researchers found that classrooms that emphasize effort and growth and normalize mistakes encourage the development of intellectual humility. in another study of high school students, young adults, and undergraduates, researchers discovered that classrooms oriented toward intellectual ability tended to stifle intellectual humility. to that end, a study published in the journal of positive psychology this year suggests one: practicing random acts of kindness. this could be due to how helping others decreases our self-focus in social situations, says researcher jennifer cheavens, while making us happier and increasing our sense of self-efficacy, too. plus, kind behavior can bond us together. in fact, another study from 2023 found that adolescents who played a random acts of kindness game on an app felt more compassion and empathy for others and were less inclined toward physical aggression than adolescents who played a different game. findings showed that people who ghosted friends more were more depressed later, no matter how depressed they were at the outset. researcher michaela forrai says this suggests ghosting affects our mental health, likely because it harms important relationships. at the same time, though, many of us may be experiencing what researchers call compassion fatigue, where we become less compassionate as we witness more pain and struggle. but is there some way to counteract that? in a 2023 study published in psychological science, researchers izzy gainsburg and julia lee cunningham of the university of michigan found that if we think about compassion a little differently, we might be able to alleviate our exhaustion. a first step in this direction, according to a study published this year, is to focus on creating a caring workplace environment. one year later, people who experienced more caring at work tended to be more productive and engaged at work, feel less distracted, and have higher well-being. while parents are often on the lookout for new tips and tricks on what we can do for our children to help support their development, more research is pointing to how important it is to be receiving care for ourselves. in fact, nurturing our own well-being is key to helping our children flourish. in a study published this year in emotion, researchers katherine nelson-coffey and john coffey discovered one simple way we can do that: by practicing gratitude. so, what else could be going on? likely, we tend to focus more on the negative than the positive in life and forget how bad things were in the past, which contributes to an illusion of moral decay, says mastroianni. in fact, violent crimes are decreasing, people are likely less selfish these days, and generational stereotypes are largely wrong, according to research. during our parenting journeys, what we have in common are experiences of stress and confusion as well as uplifts and joy. at the same time, each parenting journey is unique. some of us are parenting children with chronic health challenges that require us to have additional caregiving skills. others are parenting children entering or in the thick of puberty and under stress from toxic achievement culture. some parents are further down the road in parenting adult children with new challenges to explore. our favorite parenting books of 2023 provide parents with timely and practical, science-based guidance on how to nurture love, connection, and resilience. they cover topics ranging from how our parenting is intertwined with the natural world to how parents can break the generational cycle of adverse childhood experiences and how parent well-being is an essential prerequisite to child well-being. this beautiful and wise book describes the ingenuity of the natural world in ways that will leave you in awe, and highlights the disconnects in how children are raised in western colonizer societies that will raise serious questions for many readers. narvaez and bradshaw describe the stress and isolation that many children experience today and make an urgent call to address it. importantly, the book provides guidance to parents on listening to their tweens and teens rather than just talking. the authors explain that listening is key for many reasons. it helps kids feel heard and respected and helps you understand their world and reality, so you can provide the most helpful responses to them. on the other hand, he argues, aiming for perfection is also a mistake. perfectionism limits us in nefarious ways, making it harder to do our best, in part because we fear discomfort and making mistakes, which are important for learning and growing. we asked our participants to authentically respond to these practices, as presented on ggia, through semi-structured interviews that explored questions including childhood emotional experiences, experiences with racism, understandings of emotions, ways they express emotions, who taught them about emotions, and more. the goal was to engage deeply into the lives of the participants through in-depth and authentic conversations. although each participant in our focus group expressed numerous concerns with the visions, language, and purpose behind the 15 happiness practices, all participants offered a thorough list of how to improve the happiness practices in order to center the experiences of black people. here is a list distilled from those conversations, which, if taken seriously, could help educators, mental health workers, and psychologists to revise happiness practices in a way that could speak to a black audience. a photograph from the slavery era, from boone hall plantation in south carolina. a photograph from the slavery era, from boone hall plantation in south carolina. the first problem one faces in thinking about black happiness is that african americans look back on a long history of slavery, segregation, and other forms of racial discrimination that have made basic well-being difficult to achieve, and happiness still more problematic. these racial stereotypes make any discussion of african american happiness suspect as they underscore that black happiness has often been invoked by whites to support slavery and other forms of white supremacy. in short, there is nothing straightforward about talking about happiness, and other positive emotions, when discussing the history of an oppressed group. indeed, even black accounts of happiness make this point and, in doing so, suggest that the african american experience of happiness is often undercut by an awareness that expressions of black joy could lend support to racist ideas about black people. popular in the 1930s, he supplied comic relief in numerous hollywood movies. he invariably played a servile, slow-witted, comically lazy, bumbling black man, whose wide happy smile was part of his persona. american race relations outside the south were somewhat less hierarchal and lethal than in the south, but even northern and western blacks felt compelled to participate in happy displays of racial deference. the image of black men and women as grinning, subservient stepin fetchits and beaming mammies was literally scripted for them by hollywood films, which prior to the 1950s rarely featured blacks in any other role. beckham was clearly confounded by his results. his subjects were happier than he thought they would be, and happier than their largely negative answers to his questions about whether blacks as a group were, or should be, happy would seem to predict. moreover, the black laborers he surveyed were generally happier than his black professionals and student subjects, despite their social and economic disadvantages. perhaps these disadvantages helped explain why. the history of black happiness underscores that inequality is not just a social problem; it is also a psychological one. higher levels of wealth and income shield more affluent americans from many of the struggles, stresses, and insecurities experienced by lower-income americans. relational cultural theory suggests that suffering is a crisis in connection, and belonging is the opposite of suffering. hatred and maintaining enemies furthers the anguish of disconnection. love, and its partners compassion, understanding, safety, appreciation, and a sense of shared humanity, promotes the belonging that is the opposite of suffering. paying attention and noting what is happening inside your heart and mind gives you a foundation, and allows you to have a dialogue with threatening narratives. by cultivating an experience of yourself grounded in your body and the present moment, you can better take care of challenging emotions instead of leaping to narratives, judgments, criticisms of self and other, and conclusions that fortify barriers to love, kindness, relationship, shared humanity, and your own health and well-being. you could imagine a benevolent or spiritual figure directing these phrases toward you, and silently directing these phrases toward a stranger actually helps us feel better, as well. this all helps us detoxify, deconstruct, and deactivate hatred as it lands on us. this practice is part of cultivating a healthy sense of self to cope with trauma and life. keep enemies, hatred, and suffering in perspective. love and hate, likes and dislikes, and fear, insecurity, uncertainty, and feelings of threat are common to our human psychology. enemies abound, particularly for those who are vulnerable. but our brains were built for survival, not happiness, so often they collect negative information and dangers, and give them disproportional weight. but both undercontrol and overcontrol can become problematic. this usually happens when a combination of biological, social, and personal factors makes us much less flexible. highly overcontrolled people may struggle to adapt to change. they may be less open to new experiences and criticism, and be very set in their ways. they may experience bitter feelings of envy toward others and struggle to relax and have fun in social situations. they may also use fewer gestures, rarely smile or cry, and try to hide their emotions at any cost. together, these characteristics may make a person more likely to experience social isolation and loneliness. this may ultimately cause their mental health to worsen. but, to receive suitable help, a person must first be correctly identified as highly overcontrolled. the current assessment of overcontrol is quite long and complex. it involves a few questionnaires and an interview that must be conducted by a specially trained clinician. this can limit access to support and slow down research. i am working on developing a simplified assessment method that will help promptly identify problematic overcontrol. this will make it easier for researchers to continue studying overcontrol, too. berkeley public health: how would you describe artificial intelligence to someone coming out of a 20-year coma? jodi halpern: you could say it uses statistical and other models to create pattern recognition programs that are novel but can simulate human behavior, decisions, judgments, etc. the artificial intelligence reasoning processes are not the same as what humans do, but as we see with large language models, can simulate human behavior. so, any system that can offer certain kinds of mental health resources is something to be taken seriously as a potential benefit. my concern is with marketing bots as therapists and trusted companions to people who are depressed or otherwise highly vulnerable. in contrast, there are a lot of different uses in the mental health sphere beyond therapy bots. there are mindfulness apps and cognitive behavioral therapy apps that do not simulate relationships that have millions of users. and then there are actual health systems in the uk and several in the us that are starting to use ai for some medical record-keeping to reduce administrative burdens on mental health providers. jodi halpern md, phd, is professor of bioethics and medical humanities in the ucb-ucsf joint medical program. jh: taking over some electronic medical records, and other administrative tasks with ai is very promising. we have a huge burnout crisis in medicine in general. sixty-one percent of physicians and about the same number of nurses say they are burned out. and that is a huge problem because they are not proving the kind of empathetic and attentive care that patients need. and so far, the digital companies, creating various mental health applications, have not been held accountable for manipulative behavior. that creates a question of how they can be regulated and how people can be protected. belize, tajikistan, and azerbaijan were declared malaria-free, and other countries, such as rwanda and ghana, are also making progress against malaria. crispr, a gene-editing technology for which its inventors were awarded the nobel prize in 2020, has moved from research to reality. this fall, the united kingdom, bahrain, and the united states all approved a treatment that is the first to use crispr. in the spring, the food and drug administration approved the first vaccine for rsv, a respiratory virus that is dangerous to children and the elderly. and for the first time, artificial intelligence has assisted in finding a new antibiotic as well as a new class of antibiotics. in july, ghana became the 124th country globally and the 29th in africa to abolish the death penalty, except in cases of high treason. although 2023 was the hottest year on record and global emissions remain stubbornly high, there were many bright points for the climate. but while evidence for social prescribing in children may be limited, we know from research in adults that it can help improve quality of life and reduce feelings of social isolation. with increasing numbers of children waiting for mental health treatment, social prescribing is possibly one way of providing support to children while they wait for an assessment. it may also offer alternative approaches to promote mental health and well-being. but with minimal evidence showing its benefit, more research is needed before any programs can be rolled out. my research into working-class young men in south wales shows how masculinity is changing. some men remain hostile to the notion of toxic masculinity and see the term as a vehicle for shaming men. and some are caught in a conflict between changing ideas of masculinity and traditional, unhealthy expressions of manhood. this is further complicated by the term itself. in its simplest sense, toxic masculinity refers to an overemphasis or exaggerated expression of characteristics commonly associated with masculinity. these include traits such as competition, self-reliance, and being stoic, which produce behaviors such as risk taking, fear of showing weakness, and an inability to discuss emotions. these have negative implications for both men and women. for example, a rejection of weakness and vulnerability may prevent some men from discussing issues such as mental health. similarly, an inability to express emotion may expose itself through frustration, anger, and acts of physical violence. but masculine traits such as being stoic can equally be valuable in some circumstances, such as emergencies and making lifesaving decisions. in essence, masculinity is complex and diverse, and can be expressed in multiple ways. however, masculinity that involves courage, toughness, and physical strength has historically been held in high regard by society. for example, traditionally high rates of manual employment in heavy industries and family relationships helped establish the gender roles of the male breadwinner and female homemaker. this reinforced masculine traits such as toughness and stoicism in men. against this backdrop, we urgently need to reassess what the current research tells us about men and masculinity. some studies suggest that men are changing their behavior as society and the economy change. for example, studies of white, middle-class men who attend university have found that they are more likely to express their emotions verbally and physically. but critics of that idea say that such young men can transgress typical notions of masculinity because of their higher social status. a new wave of qualitative research has shown that some working-class young men are changing their behavior. they are more open about their emotions, admit to feeling vulnerable, and have more egalitarian views on housework. however, they still sometimes use sexist and homophobic language. my findings strengthen the idea that positive changes in masculinity are happening socially. on the other hand, he argues, aiming for perfection is also a mistake. perfectionism limits us in nefarious ways, making it harder to do our best, in part because we fear discomfort and making mistakes, which are important for learning and growing. my own research with colleagues found that when looking at how children performed in cognitive tests, only children tend to be similar to children growing up with one sibling. we were able to show that the variation we observed across generations could partially be attributed to the changing characteristics of only-child families. we found that single-child families in britain, on average, tend to be better off. however, over time being an only child has become more associated with potentially disadvantaged conditions, such as growing up with separated parents. the changing composition of single-child families helps to explain why, compared to the past, only children nowadays show a smaller advantage compared to children growing up with siblings. taken together, the results suggest that having or not having siblings does not have a large impact, or at least has a smaller one compared to other family characteristics. for example, our research showed that growing up in a disadvantaged household appears to carry a larger effect on how children performed in the cognitive tests than being an only child versus growing up with siblings. the results also suggest that it is time to shift away from the perspective of only children as a single group sharing particular traits. being an only child is not a timeless concept and experience. it depends on changes in societies and to the diverse set of families who have only children. this shift in our approach to how we see and study only children will not only increase our understanding but also help to debunk stereotypes that still persist in general society. climate crisis is all around us. in a world where billionaires jeff bezos and elon musk are charging millions of dollars for private trips to space while releasing extraordinary amounts of planet-heating greenhouse gases, our individual actions, such as swapping plastic straws for metal ones or walking to work instead of driving, may seem too small. even our individual votes may not seem to matter very much. in this story, you can see how hope moves through a chain of individuals, from a grassroots protest to the highest levels of government. perhaps one of the tricks of facing climate change is to decide that you want to stand in that chain. every fall, many teens beginning their senior year of high school embark upon the fraught ritual of submitting their college applications. but the preparation for this often-distressing rite of passage starts long before that. throughout childhood, children and their parents soak up a sense of pressure from american culture that they must be constantly focused on academic achievement and long-term professional success in a world with few opportunities. with this mindset, many children grow up to measure their self-worth with their number of accomplishments in school or accolades from extracurricular activities. maryam abdullah: what evidence do we have that achievement culture is a problem? parents are responding to real structural conditions that have been mounting for decades and trying as best they can to adapt to some pretty extraordinary economic changes. with extreme inequality, the crush of the middle class, globalization, and hypercompetition, parents fear that without their intense guidance and push, their children may end up on the wrong side of the economic divide. with increasing inequality, childhood is no longer seen as a separate time from adulthood but instead as a training ground to prepare them for a very competitive, unknown future. how might our goals and our everyday decisions change if we thought about well-being in new ways? what kind of benefits might we see in our own lives, and in our communities? here are some emerging ideas about happiness and well-being that you might want to ponder in your own life. if this pathway to a good life piques your interest, think about adding more spontaneity and playfulness into your day; find new things to try and learn, and be open to where they might take you. while happiness and meaning may fluctuate more alongside the ups and downs of life, psychological richness may be something we can slowly build up over time, new experience by new experience. but a group of researchers are trying to study and elevate a different kind of happiness that has been somewhat neglected in well-being research: quiet feelings of calm, balance, and harmony. for example, why do some people do better economically than others? some of us might assume it comes down to their own individual effort, while others might put more weight on a combination of outside forces, such as their education, parents, race, or where they grew up. on a personal level, it is critical that we have some sense of control over our own life. various studies have connected this sense of control to everything from improved health to less apathy and hopelessness. at the same time, people who are unaware of or under-appreciate the role of external factors can be either overly harsh on themselves during moments of failure or unsympathetic to the plight of others who are less fortunate than they are. education: why do some students succeed while others fail? is it because some students try harder or certain schools and teachers offer more support and resources? climate change: what is the cause of climate change? can individuals make a difference in its mitigation? racism: why have minorities historically been marginalized? is it ongoing systemic racism or historical acts of individuals? fortunately, there are many things we can do to create a healthier sense of attribution in our lives and society. our nonprofit organization, moving up media lab, has created a few tools that allow you to better assess your own attribution. other participants were asked to play 10 minutes of a poverty simulation game called spent that illustrates the various contextual factors that contribute to poverty. yet even within those stories, we can see critical external forces at play. take the movie rocky, for example. no one would deny how hard rocky works to achieve glory in the ring. at the same time, if you watch the original movie more closely, you will see a myriad of external factors that if absent would have prohibited him from succeeding. for example, he only gets a shot at the championship because another boxer gets injured. he is selected out of a book of local boxers largely because of his italian name. he at first refuses the offer to fight for the championship until the boxing promoter convinces him otherwise. his loan shark boss gives him time off and money to train. paulie gives him free steaks every day. adrian supports him unconditionally, and so on and so on. when we tell more nuanced stories of attribution, we contribute to a culture that has a healthier and more well-rounded idea of what really brings about life outcomes. one example that i find particularly compelling involves the research of rachel l. ruttan, assistant professor of organizational behavior at the university of toronto. she found that people who had gone through various life struggles and overcome them were often less sympathetic to those who were currently dealing with the same struggle, less so than those who had never experienced it. for example, someone who quit smoking or lost their job was less sympathetic to someone trying to quit smoking or recently unemployed, compared to someone who never smoked or was fired. this flies in the face of our understanding of empathy. but as ruttan hypothesizes, the cause could be related to attribution. if people believe that their success is contextual, then their success seems less secure. conversely, if they believe their success is of their own making, then they will naturally feel more secure in their achievement but also be more likely to judge others as not having sufficient willpower to overcome the struggle as they themselves did. better understanding attribution is a powerful tool for change in our own lives and society as a whole. it asks us to reflect on important questions in a way that is non-threatening. it is devoid of the judgment so inherent in questions about privilege and is more nuanced and encompassing than solutions grounded in grit. it can improve the stories we tell about ourselves and others. now imagine if more people had similar experiences. how much more would we give? how much more responsibility would we take? how much kinder could we be to ourselves and to others and how much less judgmental? what happens when we experience awe during periods of great stress, such as when someone is dying? can that awe still be positive? a new research study by maria monroy, dacher keltner, and colleagues aimed to find out. they conducted the study during the covid pandemic and worked with a community population and a group of health care workers. the results tell us a lot about how feeling connected to something larger than ourselves can help us to find meaning, even in suffering. when asked to think of awesome experiences, we might think first of, say, the eiffel tower or the grand canyon. but we can find awe in the smallest moments, as well. so, what exactly is awe and how do these experiences support us? a diminished focus on the self: awe can be the antidote to self-absorption, which helps us gain perspective. increased prosocial relationality: many studies suggest that awe can help us to be generous and empathic. a heightened sense of meaning and purpose: awe seems to drive both spiritual feelings and scientific curiosity. in the study, participants first went through an hour-long zoom educational and orientation session. then, for 22 days they received an online questionnaire asking about experiences of awe, other positive emotions, and bodily complaints such as fatigue and pain. it also asked about stress and overall sense of well-being. they found that there was less stress and greater sense of well-being on days with more awe in both the community sample and the health care workers. for community members, days with more awe were associated with fewer bodily complaints such as back pain and headache; the health care group derived no such benefit. a white paper prepared for the john templeton foundation by the greater good science center at uc berkeley. the timing of the study also is the source of its weakness. because of the pandemic, they needed to use a convenient sample of people who volunteered to be in the study. thus, we should not assume that the results are widely applicable to the general population. even so, the results can now justify repeating the study in broader settings or particularly vulnerable groups living through challenging circumstances. to the lead author of the paper, jasper van assche of the university of ghent in belgium, this suggests that contact theory holds even under conflict situations. van assche hopes that his research can lead people to see the benefits of integrating the spaces in which they live and increasing opportunities for positive contact between groups. this could be done through top-down methods, such as the government requiring school integration, but also from the bottom up. for example, suggests van assche, communities could create low-cost, low-key events that bring people together, helping to reduce prejudice and promote tolerance in an impromptu way. in the study, recently published in nature, researchers looked at several surveys of hundreds of thousands of americans and people from 59 other nations around the world. in the surveys, participants had shared their views on whether honesty, ethical behavior, and moral values had been increasing or decreasing in their society or country. in his recently published study in the journal of child psychology and psychiatry, kim and colleagues found that prenatal exposure to discrimination and violence during the apartheid regime in south africa predicted mental health problems among children born to younger mothers and youngsters whose households were particularly stressful. after completing his undergraduate studies at emory university, kim attended northwestern, where he studied biological anthropology and the health consequences of societal oppression. they wanted to explore how biological processes involving stress hormones and the immune system facilitate trauma from one generation to the next. how, they wondered, did the effects of apartheid-era stress manifest themselves in children decades later? did those stressors contribute to rates of mental illness? and perhaps most importantly, how might reparations and restorative justice help repair the damage? by knowing these details, he said, students and researchers could improve access to regional mental health services for people, including those suffering from intergenerational trauma. what was supposed to be a nine-month project that launched in earnest in september 2019, kim said, stretched to two and a half years due to pandemic-induced research delays and travel restrictions. we gathered articles that explore the roots of peace, war, and reconciliation; offer resources for well-being and activism; and remind us of human goodness. greater prenatal stress exposure during apartheid was not directly associated with a greater prevalence of mental illness in the child, they found. that detail contradicts much of the work on prenatal stress and intergenerational trauma, which has generally found a direct relationship between such stress and psychiatric morbidity. expectant mothers who experience certain stressors, kim found, may be sensitizing their unborn children to unhealthy psychological reactions to stress, increasing their risk of psychiatric disease. it was a surprising finding, kim said. given the tumultuous and violent conditions under apartheid, and previous research into the effects of intergenerational trauma, he thought it seemed logical that there would have been a significant effect in the mother-child pairs. in october 1936, 200 men marched from south tyneside to london to protest against the poverty and unemployment in their town, jarrow. in this pilot, participants are paid the same amount as a separate welsh government pilot that involves people leaving care. the jarrow and east finchley pilot is focused on a broader, locally representative pool of people in each of these communities. the project has been based on our research on basic incomes, which suggests that tackling financial insecurity is essential to promoting public health. this is a particularly important issue now because the effects of covid and the cost of living crisis on britons who are employed, self-employed, or who run small businesses have left many people at risk of destitution. this has created a second pandemic that will only get worse: mental ill health. our recent report shows the only way we can bring this current crisis to an end is through bold interventions. the idea of the state redistributing resources by providing an adequate, regular, and predictable payment to citizens is radical. it turns the discussion about welfare on its head: from a payment to a select few with no other means of satisfying their needs, to a payment that protects those in, as well as out, of work from the threat of destitution. one of the key, and often overlooked, consequences of this is its potential contribution to public health. basic income set at an adequate level could boost public health in three ways. second, by reducing financial inequality, it would also give people the option to leave abusive, damaging environments. this would reduce stress and stress-related illnesses. the pandemic has highlighted the dangers of people being unable to escape these environments, and the potential long-term impacts on health are significant. and, third, by giving people a more predictable and secure future, it would increase their perception of their lifespan. this could lead to changes in behavior in the process. people with clearer long-term futures may be less likely to engage in hedonistic activities, such as drug and alcohol misuse, and more likely to engage in exercise and health-promoting activity, according to our research. the nhs made health care free at the point of use. three decades after its implementation, the labour government sought to understand why health inequality persisted. future generations may look back at recent discussions about ubis with the same confusion we feel when thinking of opposition to the nhs in the 1940s. but in the wake of world war ii, something very unusual happened in california. sexual minorities started migrating to the san francisco bay area, founding some of the very first openly gay, lesbian, and transgender communities. for heterosexuals, new forms of birth control separated sexual pleasure from reproduction, women became more economically empowered, and divorce rates skyrocketed. california-based countercultures, like the beats and hippies, explicitly rejected sexual monogamy as an ideal. cults and organizations proliferated that promoted personal growth and sexual liberation. second-wave feminism cut through all these movements to undermine the male supremacy at their core and help them to evolve in a more egalitarian direction. why is it important to be aware of this history? because it reveals that polyamory has never been mainly about youth, beauty, and sex. people have always grown older with multiple partners; our culture just has trouble seeing both old people and alternatives to monogamy. one thing that really struck me is that when all parties consciously embrace the logic of polyamory, that can fuel well-being in elderhood. that logic entails looking for creative solutions that polyamory makes possible, and recognizing the benefits that can come from dumping monogamous expectations. based on what we know about child development, children need to see themselves very directly. kids, especially the little ones, are not known for picking up on subtle cues. when it comes to their learning, simple and direct statements and stories work best. and when it comes to diversity, kids need to see people who look like them on-screen. despite what some might say, kids are not color blind. they learn visually, first and foremost, so seeing a character that looks, sounds, and acts like them will have a great impact on their sense of self-worth. for diversity representation purposes, that means that they need to see human characters, not animals, monsters, or robots. together, we can help affirm children in their experiences and identities, teach children about those they have yet to be exposed to, and raise generations of young ones more comfortable and equipped in navigating race. christine clark: a lot of your work is focused on understanding why people hurt other people, so we can better understand motives to treat and prevent violence. in the case of police brutality, it has garnered more attention in recent years because it is increasingly caught on tape, and yet instances continue to persist; why is that? cc: what do you think are some of the possible solutions to curb police brutality? cc: your work also addresses an increase in mass shootings that are plaguing the nation. we know these numbers increase every year, with over 50 in january 2023 alone. are these shootings inspiring each other? cc: did your research find any potential tools to counteract these ideological ties that you say can lead to someone committing violence? the happiness scores come from a survey of life satisfaction, which goes something like this: considering your life as a whole and using the mental image of a ladder, with the best possible life as a 10 and worst possible as a 0, indicate where on the ladder you personally stand. this question basically gets people thinking about themselves and their resources, accomplishments, opportunities, and status. in their study, they devised a culturally sensitive way of measuring well-being, and found that existing happiness rankings tend to underestimate scores in certain countries. in doing so, they discovered what might be a more accurate way to measure happiness across the world. our cultural context shapes how we think about happiness. for example, satisfaction with life is a very individually focused way of evaluating happiness; the question is about you and your own experience, and likely makes sense to people from individualistic cultures. individualistic cultures tend to think of happiness as experiences of excitement and fun. in other countries, the cultural orientation to happiness is more relationship-oriented and focused on interpersonal harmony and social interdependence. in other words, happiness there is not constrained to the individual, but comes from shared experiences. people in collectivist cultures would typically rate their happiness highly only if other people around them were also happy, and they think of it more like contentment. interestingly enough, while rats are commonly considered ugly and disgusting, in experiments a rat will show compassion by coming to the aid of a fellow rat in distress, even when it means having to share a treasured piece of chocolate. not all humans demonstrate this trait. elephants appear to be highly empathic; researchers have witnessed them assisting others who are injured. they also become agitated at the death of one of their own, and behave in a way that indicates grief. one well-documented case is of a matriarch named eleanor. weakened by age, eleanor kept collapsing, and a fellow matriarch, grace, kept trying to lift her onto her feet. grace appeared distraught, her facial glands streaming. there are even examples of elephants becoming disconsolate when they come across the body of another species. in one instance, a young, orphaned elephant shrieked and moaned when it discovered the remains of its rhinoceros companion, killed by poachers. stanford medicine researchers and colleagues at two other institutions report surprising results from a study that turns a dogma concerning the biology of friendliness, romantic attachment, and parental probity on its head. long considered important in mammalian pair bonding and good parenting, oxytocin has been stewarded into numerous clinical trials on the assumption that, administered as a drug, it might encourage sociability in people with conditions such as schizophrenia and autism spectrum disorder. oxytocin, too, is understood to act by binding to its own dedicated receptor, a cell-surface protein that abounds in distinct structures in the brain. or could it be that this hallowed hormone is two-timing its acknowledged receptor via covert liaisons with some mysterious, as-yet-unidentified receptor hiding in plain sight? many people want to experience a sense of meaning as part of living a fulfilling life. but what brings us meaning, as opposed to just happiness? when some participants considered their own job and lives, meaning was not tied only to benefitting others. people could find just as much meaning in activities that benefitted themselves. when the researchers drilled down further, though, they discovered that this discrepancy may have to do with how people experience activities in the moment vs. how they feel when reflecting on them later. the final insights were selected by experts on our staff, after soliciting nominations from our network of nearly 400 researchers. we hope they help normalize whatever challenges you may be experiencing and offer a note of optimism for the year ahead. have you ever found yourself caught up in admiring the beauty of a painting or the tranquility of your local nature reserve? do you get deeply engaged in conversations with other people, or find yourself savoring the little things in life? a 2022 study published in nature human behavior found that appreciating small moments like this is an important way to enhance our sense of meaning. prior research has found that meaning in life is driven by having a sense of purpose, feeling like your life matters, and feeling like the world makes sense. but this paper found that appreciating experiences may be another key driver of meaning. of course, consciously practicing appreciation may be easier said than done. how do we go about appreciating our everyday lives? in the paper, one path to appreciation that the researchers discovered was awe. after viewing an emotional montage showcasing the wonders of nature, participants reported greater appreciation of experiences, which led to a higher sense of meaning in life. or one additional idea is to simply appreciate the everyday pleasure of thinking. as another 2022 study published in the journal of experimental psychology: general found, we consistently underestimate how much we will enjoy the simple task of sitting with our thoughts. meaning might seem lofty and unattainable, but this research suggests that we might be able to find it in the small things. there are many ways we seek comfort in life. we can find it in a warm shower, a fuzzy cuddle with a cat, or a night on the couch with no obligations. researchers conducted five experiments in which over 2,100 people were engaging in personal growth activities, such as taking improv classes, journaling about their emotions, or learning about covid-19, gun violence, or opposing political viewpoints. in each activity, researchers told some participants that their goal was to feel uncomfortable and awkward, nervous, anxious, or even upset. they were told to push past their comfort zone and know that feeling uncomfortable is a sign that the activity is working. for example, improv students spent more time in the spotlight on stage and did wackier things; journalers were more interested in writing another difficult, emotional diary entry in the future; and people were more motivated to read challenging but informative news articles. this research goes to show that we might be judging normal human experiences like nervousness, stress, and discomfort too harshly. while our inclination might be to avoid them, we can become better people and live a richer life if we embrace them. conscientiousness: we became less motivated to pursue goals and accept responsibilities. younger adults changed the most over the course of the pandemic. that group showed the steepest declines in agreeableness and conscientiousness, and a sharp spike in neuroticism, which means that they became more angry, anxious, irritable, and depressed. still, these findings offer a different way to think about mental health issues. while depression and other conditions may seem intractable, a good proportion of people not only overcome them but go on to be happy and well. two 2022 studies point toward a potential solution: experiencing awe. when we feel a sense of wonder in the presence of things greater than ourselves, we expand our circle of care and become more likely to act as global citizens. in another study published in psychological science, researchers found similar benefits of experiencing awe after people witnessed the 2017 solar eclipse. researchers analyzed the tweets of almost 3 million twitter users during the eclipse and found that people residing in the eclipse pathway expressed more awe and used less self-focused language than those living outside of it. and the more awe expressed in their tweets, the more affiliative, humble, and collective language they used in comparison to their pre-eclipse tweets. taken together, the studies suggest awe can broaden our moral circle of care by increasing our sense of common humanity and collectivism. but a 2022 study that came out in psychological bulletin questions that narrative. ultimately, researchers found that younger generations were less selfish and more cooperative than older generations. few issues are more overwhelming than climate change: long-term shifts in temperature and weather patterns largely fueled by humans burning fossil fuels. we already know many of the technological and social solutions, like making transportation more efficient and shifting toward renewable sources of power. two other new papers tested steps you as an individual can take to prevent yourself from adopting and spreading misinformation. what led to more investigative behaviors? a trait called intellectual humility, which is the knowledge that your opinions are fallible. our intellectual humility quiz can offer you some recommendations for strengthening your intellectual humility. are depressed people simply more realistic in judging how much they control their lives, while others view the world through rose-colored lenses, living under the illusion that they have more control than they do? why test the theory of depressive realism in particular? its decades-long infusion into science, culture, and even potential mental health treatment policy makes it important, moore says. the original study, for instance, was cited more than 2,000 times in subsequent studies or research, according to google scholar. moore coauthored the study with amelia dev, who served as lead author and is now a university of miami doctoral student; uc berkeley psychology professor sheri johnson; and former undergraduate student researcher karin garrett. the researchers added or used more modern and robust measurements for the study. for example, they added a mechanism to measure bias, and experimentally varied the amount of control participants actually had. in the college student group, depression levels had little impact on their view of their control, the authors found. while depression may not improve judgment, the issue of how to accurately gauge our level of control in various situations has broader implications throughout life, moore says. flash ahead almost a century to the birth of positive psychology, which was once revolutionary for the way it turned away from studying and treating dysfunction in individuals toward examining the practices and traits that helped people to flourish. in focusing on strengths, virtues, and happiness, positive psychology opened a door into human minds and relationships that science had long neglected. happiness inequality was already rising alongside income and wealth inequality in the years before covid-19, as the world happiness report found. and during the pandemic, it appears that well-being became even more difficult for some than others. going house to house in the ukrainian cities of kharkiv and lviv, researchers interviewed almost 1,300 participants face to face, and gave them questionnaires with more morally sensitive questions, to be filled out and handed back in sealed envelopes. in war-affected countries, they write, this creates a vicious cycle: people who are exposed to news about nearby war are more stressed and more likely to be depressed, which affects their beliefs about violence. research does suggest that post-war societies are more likely to experience criminal violence, like domestic abuse, muggings, and murder. articles that explore the roots of peace, war, and reconciliation; offer resources for well-being and activism; and remind us of human goodness. another study by timmer and her colleagues, published in the same month by the british journal of criminology, used the same surveys to uncover that people who are more exposed to war are more willing to personally harm another person. as with the other study, the more stress or negative emotion a person felt, the more likely they were to believe in violence as a solution to conflict. a series of essays by people trying to apply the science of a meaningful life to their daily lives. the number of situations that have been solved with courage even after all hope was lost is staggering. in 1940, after most news outlets declared the dunkirk evacuation an unmitigated disaster, thousands of people had the courage to get on tiny boats and cross the nazi-infested english channel. the apollo 13 disaster is another example of courage overcoming a hopeless situation, when an explosion on board the spacecraft drove scientists to face an impossible situation and eventually overcome it. when hope falters, the only options left are courage or collapse. courage is not something you can spread as easily as hope, but once it is learned courage becomes a powerful force for good. courage is not just picketing coal plants and protesting oil pipelines, it is also reading the bad news and seeing an opportunity for spreading awareness rather than despair. it is waking up every day knowing we walk on a changing earth and imagining what possibilities that entails, along with the problems that it will inevitably present. when i feel despair start creeping in, i take a moment to remind myself what we are trying to protect as well as give a moment of grief for what we have lost. these are natural emotions to experience when we are faced with existential change of any kind, and it is important for you to experience them and work through them in your own way. when the unyielding stakes and barrage of media despair become too much, i take a walk in the berkeley hills, go kayaking, or simply walk down my neighborhood streets, paying extra attention to the chirping of the birds and the inviting shade of an oak tree. the son of unfailingly generous ghanaian immigrants, business professor isaac addae always knew he wanted to dedicate his life to helping others. yet experts recognize that these effects depend on maintaining a healthy balance between selflessness and self-care. once oakley realized her above-and-beyond approach was sapping her energy to handle other matters, she thought about how she might ratchet down her involvement while still supporting students. when she started asking her students to approach other class members for help before they contacted her, the tide of requests began to recede, and she had more energy to help students with truly urgent needs. questioning your long-held assumptions about giving can also help you break out of a pathological cycle. in other words, our generational stereotypes of selfish boomers and caring gen zers can be misleading. plus, they can cause people to put too much faith in younger generations, thinking they will solve climate change rather than all of us stepping up to do something. all in all, if we want to make the world a better place and see thriving future generations, we need to get away from stereotyping and stop pitting generations against each other, which serves no one. instead, we must find more ways to be together and connect, sharing the necessary work of making the world a better place for current and future generations. a few years ago, i asked a sample of adults to think about all of the disagreements that they have with other people, from minor disagreements about relatively unimportant issues to major disagreements about important matters. then, i asked them to estimate the percentage of disagreements they have with other people in which they are the one who is correct. i question my own opinions, positions, and viewpoints because they could be wrong. i like finding out new information that differs from what i already think is true. one of our studies showed that people high in intellectual humility were more attentive to the quality of the evidence in an article about the value of dental flossing, more clearly distinguishing good from bad reasons to floss. because they realize that their beliefs might be wrong, intellectually humble people pay more attention to the quality of the evidence on which their beliefs are based. intellectual humility is also associated with the desire to learn new information. people who are high in intellectual humility score higher in epistemic curiosity, which is the motivation to pursue new knowledge and ideas. their higher curiosity seems to be motivated both by the fact they enjoy learning new information and by the distress they feel when they lack information or do not understand something. high intellectual humility is also associated with the degree to which people enjoy thinking, mulling over issues, and solving intellectual problems. people higher in intellectual humility like to think more than people low in intellectual humility do. several studies also show that they are less inclined to disparage people who have different viewpoints than they do. in contrast, people who are lower in intellectual humility have stronger emotional reactions when people disagree with them and disregard or disparage people who hold different views. this is the first essay in a three-year ggsc project to raise awareness about intellectual humility research and its implications. in addition to fueling conflict and causing hard feelings, low intellectual humility can create practical problems. people who are intolerant of views that differ from theirs can also stifle open and honest discussions. for example, leaders who are not open to divergent ideas inhibit group members from offering their views, potentially short-circuiting creative and valuable ideas. in contrast, intellectually humble leaders who are open to alternative views may motivate others to contribute more ideas to discussions. intellectual humility clearly has personal, practical, and social benefits. but what leads some people to be more intellectually humble than others? given that intellectual humility is a very new research topic, not much work on this question has been conducted, but we can speculate based on research in related areas. first, given that virtually every personal characteristic has at least a weak genetic basis, it would be surprising if intellectual humility was not partly heritable. indirect support for this idea comes from the fact that intellectual humility correlates with both overconfidence and openness, both of which show evidence of genetic influences. certain belief systems may also discourage intellectual humility. for example, most religions teach that they alone have the truth and strongly discourage people from considering that those beliefs might be wrong. of course, nonreligious people may also be low in intellectual humility; atheists are often as convinced that their views are correct as religious fundamentalists are. unfortunately, most of us overestimate the accuracy of our beliefs and opinions, often badly, with little consideration of the possibility that we might be wrong. fortunately, people can increase in intellectual humility both through a personal decision to be more intellectually humble and through interventions that help people confront their intellectual overconfidence and take steps to reduce it. i spoke at length with grinker about mental illness, its history, and what we can do to help everyone from doctors and teachers to consumers and therapists to friends and family push forward changes in social norms today. jn: my book, divergent mind, has a more contemporary focus and looks at the pathologization of women more specifically, but i did find that mental health diagnoses proliferated around the rise of capitalism and during the height of british colonialism. how is capitalism related to the stigma of mental illness? jn: those of us who are neurodivergent are often compared to canaries in the coal mine, helping to alert people to why society as a whole might need different ways of living and to move away from what is more toxic about modern culture. as an anthropologist, what are your hopes for the future in terms of how people talk about mental health? the project took on a life of its own. over 190 days, we released 103 videos. each was around five minutes long, with one simple question: how might covid-19 impact our future? watch the full video series here. just as people with preexisting medical conditions are most susceptible to the virus, the global impact of the crisis will accelerate preexisting transitions. as eurasia group president ian bremmer highlights, a year of a global pandemic can pack in a decade or more of disruption as usual. pulitzer prize-winning editor ann marie lipinski arrives at the same prognosis for journalism, and princeton economist atif mian worries similarly for structural global debt. achim steiner, administrator of the united nations development programme, is awestruck at the extraordinary amount of money that was mobilized to respond to this global crisis. he wonders if the world might become less stingy about the much smaller amounts needed to combat climate change before it is irreversible and catastrophic. john prandato, communications specialist at the frederick s. pardee center for the study of the longer-range future, was series editor for the video project and contributed to this essay. free and open now--and proceed at your own pace! learn research-based strategies for connecting across divides. join us to bridge differences in your work, campus, community, and life. they generally have a beginning that shows that the perpetrator is aware of the harm and a middle that reveals how they came to see their role in the damage they caused. they end with the perpetrator taking responsibility for the harm and promising to do better. for me, right now, burning and building bridges go hand-in-hand. both are necessary to live in a post-trump america. do you have a long-term goal that's meaningful to yourself and the world? take our quiz to find out. i spoke to price about why our expectations for ourselves are too high, how it hurts us, and what we can do about it. devon price: as i write in my book, people need to think logically about whether or not someone is in control of their motivation levels. do people choose to feel depressed or exhausted or burnt out? no, no one would choose to feel that way. one thing i really advocate for in the book is a person getting a chance to check in with what their true values are, not what society says they should be doing, and to really determine for themselves what they want their lives to look like. js: what can individuals do to combat the tendency to label themselves or others as lazy? here at greater good, we cover research into social and emotional well-being, and we try to help people apply findings to their personal and professional lives. we are well aware that our business is a tricky one. given the complexities and ambiguities of the scientific endeavor, is it possible for a non-scientist to strike a balance between wholesale dismissal and uncritical belief? are there red flags to look for when you read about a study on a site like greater good or hear about one on a fox news program? if you do read an original source study, how should you, as a non-scientist, gauge its credibility? here are 11 questions you might ask when you read about the latest scientific findings about the pandemic, based on our own work here at greater good. animal experiments tell scientists a lot, but their applicability to our daily human lives will be limited. similarly, if researchers only studied men, the conclusions might not be relevant to women, and vice versa. this applies to the coronavirus vaccines now being distributed and administered around the world. the vaccines will have side effects; all medicines do. those side effects will be worse for some people than others, depending on their genetic inheritance, medical status, age, upbringing, current living conditions, and other factors. for hass, it amounts to this question: will those side effects be worse, on balance, than covid-19, for most people? in general, the more participants in a study, the more valid its results. that said, a large sample is sometimes impossible or even undesirable for certain kinds of studies. during covid-19, limited time has constrained the sample sizes. while good researchers try to compare apples to apples, and control for as many differences as possible in their analyses, running a study always involves trade-offs between what can be accomplished as a function of study design, and how generalizable the findings can be. in the end, the important thing is to accurately identify the relationship. this has been crucial in understanding steps to counter the spread of covid-19 like shelter-in-place orders. just showing that greater compliance with shelter-in-place mandates was associated with lower hospitalization rates is not as conclusive as showing that one community that enacted shelter-in-place mandates had lower hospitalization rates than a different community of similar size and population density that elected not to do so. the scientific method is based on iterative progress, and grounded in coordinating discoveries over time. researchers study what others have done and use prior findings to guide their own study approaches; every study builds on generations of precedent, and every scientist expects their own discoveries to be usurped by more sophisticated future work. in the study you are reading, do the researchers adequately describe and acknowledge earlier findings, or other key contributions from other fields or disciplines that inform aspects of the research, or the way that they interpret their results? this was crucial for the debates that have raged around mask mandates and social distancing. we already knew quite a bit about the efficacy of both in preventing infections, informed by centuries of practical experience and research. ultimately, the approach we should take to all new studies is a curious but skeptical one. we should take it all seriously and we should take it all with a grain of salt. you can judge a study against your experience, but you need to remember that your experience creates bias. you should try to cultivate humility, doubt, and patience. you might not always succeed; when you fail, try to admit fault and forgive yourself. given these facts, why do so many people resist simple, non-pharmaceutical health measures like wearing masks, social distancing, and staying home when local governments ask them to, in order to maintain hospital capacity? from the beginning of the pandemic, many people have tried to minimize its impact, often for political purposes. their arguments rely on faulty math, incomplete information, or wishful thinking. when political scientists clifton van der linden and justin savoie surveyed canadians in april of this year, they found that respondents were significantly more motivated to wear masks if they read about how masks protect other people than they were by a statement that stressed protecting oneself. in another recent study from sweden, researchers found that people who were more generous in an economics game were more likely to learn about the virus, wear masks, and socially distance. that said, there are many ways to mess up these measures. while studies agree that lockdowns save lives, a substantial number of experts argue that they should be an absolute last resort, after other possibilities have been exhausted. in other words, it might be ok to keep businesses and schools open, but only if masking is strictly enforced, accurate testing is readily available, and contact tracing is widespread. that has simply not been the case in much of the united states, to say the least. in his 1960 book, the semisovereign people, the political scientist elmer e. schattschneider argued that economic inequality was a form of voter suppression. in his view, this happened because economic inequality allowed the affluent and wealthy to set the terms of the debate and so get the outcomes that serve their interests. if the political system seemed to work mainly for their benefit, then poor and working-class people had less incentive to participate. the upshot: inequality does, in fact, powerfully depress voting among low-income people. this insight has been confirmed by other, more recent studies. a new analysis published by the website fivethirtyeight looks at polling data for the 2020 election to come to the same conclusion: as incomes go down, so does voter participation. in 2001, researchers at harvard examined the current population survey results from 1990, 1992, 1994, and 1996 to find that individuals living in states with high voting inequality between socioeconomic groups were much more likely to report fair or poor health compared to those living in states with lower voting inequality. this association between inequality, health, and voting holds true in other countries, as well. to confirm this link between health inequalities and political participation, researchers aaron reeves and johan mackenbach studied voter registration and health data from 17 european countries. indeed, they found inequalities in political participation are correlated with greater health inequalities. additionally, people experiencing health challenges may have decreased access to resources that would otherwise prompt them to vote. these individuals may disconnect from their neighborhood, spend less time in community spaces, or not be reached through voter registration efforts. however, race is almost absent from top psychological publications, according to a new study led by steven o. roberts, an assistant professor of psychology in the school of humanities and sciences at stanford university. his research, published in perspectives on psychological science, found that prominent psychological publications that highlight race are rare, and when race is discussed, it is authored mostly and edited almost entirely by white scholars. to determine the race of the editors and the authors they publish, the researchers searched and categorized photos they found of them online, which were often from their faculty webpage. they then emailed the scholars to ask for their self-identified racial identity. this allowed the researchers to ensure that their own assessments were accurate, which they were. racial makeup among editors-in-chief also varied among different areas of psychology. for example, there has never been a poc editor in either of the journals about cognitive psychology, a subfield that studies mental processes such as perception, memory, thinking, attention, and language. roberts hypothesizes that cognitive psychologists may avoid race because of their pursuit to study race-neutral, universal phenomena. the researchers also wondered if the disparity could be explained by the quantity of the researchers. if there are simply more white authors, then white authors should be overrepresented across all journals. however, roberts found that in lower-tier specialty journals, white authors were actually underrepresented. the first thing journals can do is communicate a top-down commitment to diversity, said roberts. this means explicitly stating whether the journal publishes research that is sensitive to diversity and whether it values the editing, writing, and participation of diverse scientists. other recommendations are to include diverse individuals across all levels of the publication process, evaluate the diversity of research participants in the review process, release public diversity reports annually, and establish a diversity task force. authors can make a change, as well. roberts recommends that, for instance, authors detail and justify the racial demographics of their research participants. doing so is uncommon in mainstream psychology journals, says roberts. roberts hopes that this work will give recognition to generations of psychologists who have worked tirelessly in the field and largely been ignored in the publication process of the most esteemed journals. other cities are considering following suit. some, like los angeles, have already diverted police funding to community services. many recognize a long history of police departments using racial profiling to fight crime, leading to larger arrest rates, incarceration, and killings of african americans. they worry the problems are systemic, and nothing short of a complete overhaul of police will curb the violence. some also point to the rising costs of policing without added public safety and the undue influence of police unions in maintaining the status quo. does the minneapolis plan make sense? will divesting from police and investing more in communities make people safer? there may be other underlying issues in police not addressed by reform research. though he is hopeful about efforts to mandate police officers intervening when they see another officer abusing their power, ward also sees that as a hard lift for them. for example, one of his studies found that when sheriffs were given an opportunity to unionize, violent incidents of misconduct in their ranks rose. another study showed that officers fired from one police department were often rehired elsewhere, and, when they were, they had higher chances of repeated misconduct in the new location. these issues imply that problems run deep in police departments and restructuring them from the ground up may be needed. ward says that it makes sense to dismantle a system and culture that dehumanize people who commit crimes while promoting an unhealthy hero worship of police. this is what happened in the town of camden, new jersey, in 2013, where a high crime rate and decimated city budget led city officials to disband their police department, break up the union, and start over. the town instituted a community policing approach that involved a stronger collaboration between police and the community they served. the city also focused funds on increasing public services. this resulted in a huge drop in crime. of course, camden is just one example of how this can be done. but research suggests that focusing on community health may indeed be more important to crime prevention than warrior-style police forces. in a meta-analysis of over 200 studies, criminologists travis pratt and francis cullen of the university of cincinnati looked at how different factors in the community and police force predicted crime. indeed, research supports the contention that providing better education to communities is connected to reduced crime rates. after-school programs that focus on social skills and character education also help prevent youth delinquency, which suggests investments in these programs would increase public safety. health care access also reduces crime. as one study found, expanding medicaid is associated with a sharp decrease in crime rates. providing local access to drug treatment facilities has also been tied to less crime, meaning that we can improve public health and reduce crime rates effectively by providing better health care. yet, while the burdens of racism fall squarely on african americans and other people of color, they are not the only people negatively affected by it, says ward. living in a racist society and working to uphold white supremacy instead of focusing on uplifting the general welfare of citizens hurts everyone, he says. this reality is on the minds of the hundreds of thousands of people who took to the streets to protest against police brutality and for reforms following the death of george floyd, an african-american man in minneapolis who was detained by police, one of whom knelt on his neck for over eight minutes. his killing raised the specter of philando castile, a black man who was killed by a police officer during a 2016 traffic stop in minnesota. for instance, many americans have been exposed to negative portrayals of arabs or muslims in the news media and entertainment, and so they become more likely to stereotype these people as fanatics or terrorists. something similar has been historically true of black men. because the american public is repetitively exposed to images of black men as criminals, studies have found, we are more likely to see them that way. could these scientific insights and practical experience help reduce police violence toward the black community? in other words, stereotyping of anyone seems to increase the possibility of violence. police officers are also influenced by the culture that surrounds them, and there is quite a bit of evidence that suggests a more racially biased society leads to more biased police. one 2017 study by eric hehman and his colleagues examined the implicit and explicit racial biases of over two million americans, as well as the use of lethal force against african americans by police. unsurprisingly, perhaps, the police in places with stronger implicit racial prejudices and stereotypes among white residents were more likely to kill black people. meindl and his team found that these two foundations were both associated with different ideas about power. those who believe in hard work tended to favor concentrated power, while those who believe in wealth redistribution wanted power to be more equally distributed, as well. in other words, both groups of people respond to core beliefs about what makes a good society, rather than acting out of some simple form of self-interest. those who think that the goal of society should be to maximize well-being and happiness believe more in equality and need-based distributive justice, while those who think that society must be powerful think that emphasizing merit is the best way to achieve that goal. our monthly happiness calendar is a day-by-day guide to well-being. it can help inject a bit of happiness into your everyday life with videos, articles, practices, podcasts, and other content from the greater good science center and beyond. to electronically subscribe to the calendar by adding it to your google calendar or icalendar, click on the subscribe buttons below. this is an extraordinary moment in the field of education. outdated paradigms and thinking patterns are crashing down around us throughout the world, which gives educators an opportunity to help shape the next generation of humans to be more socially, emotionally, and morally astute. greater good in education offers free research-based and informed strategies and practices for the social, emotional, and ethical development of students, for the well-being of the adults who work with them, and for cultivating positive school cultures. to design ggie, we talked extensively to practitioners, researchers, and programmers who are deeply immersed in this work, and we were humbled by the challenges they face. while there is no magic wand that will solve everything, we designed ggie expressly with these challenges in mind. this is why ggie does not offer a set curriculum, but rather a plethora of practices that cover a wide variety of prosocial skills, allowing educators to choose what will best serve their students and that also will allow them to teach according to their values. ggie offers an entire section dedicated to staff and teacher well-being called my well-being, and includes practices on mindfulness, self-compassion, gratitude, and other skills that help cultivate adult social-emotional competencies. ggie helps foster a positive school climate. studies have found that trust between the adults in a school is at the heart of school reform. and the only way to cultivate trust is to cultivate strong relationships in which everyone is looking out for the other. english teachers can help students develop empathy by examining the motivations and personalities of characters, as suggested through the practice fostering empathy through literature. history teachers can promote gratitude through people who made a difference, a practice that guides students to research historical figures who have worked to make the world a better place and then express gratitude for what they did. and drawing as a way to manage emotions gives art teachers a way to use art to teach emotion regulation. then the participants chose whether, if they were in charge, they would take the current patient off of oxygen to save the others and how moral or immoral that decision would be. those prompted with voi thinking chose to take the patient off oxygen significantly more often than those not prompted, and they felt their choice was more morally sound, as well. study co-author joshua greene says he finds this result encouraging. assuming that the moral decision is the one that benefits the greatest number of people, it implies that people can overcome a natural aversion to doing the right thing even when it makes them uncomfortable. for the survey, some participants were randomly instructed to select true or false in under 11 seconds, while others were instructed to wait at least 11 seconds before responding. a third group was given no time-related instructions; they filled out the survey at their own pace. the ucsb team found that participants who responded in under 11 seconds scored higher in social desirability. in other words, with limited time to answer questions, they described themselves as more kind and helpful, while more time led people to characterize themselves more selfishly. so why did the tardy good samaritan lecturers fail to help? results from live field studies can deviate from findings in laboratory or online survey studies, of course. but the more recent research may point to another explanation. in fact, being less late is also a kindness to others, and the theology students may have refrained from helping the one person in need to better serve the full audience of people in the lecture hall. in other words, this is not a story where the unethical choice prevailed, but where time-pressed participants made a utilitarian decision to maximize their positive impact on the greatest number of other people. the video cameras tracked spots that hosted crowds of people, such as public transit stations, storefronts, and busy streets. to be included in the study, video clips had to show an aggressive incident without any police or emergency personnel present at the outset. the new work, franco says, should be considered in light of decades of psychology research that confirms an individual bystander effect. some experts also doubt whether bystanders are truly as helpful as the new research shows. while this may have boosted the helping rates the study found, philpot also argues that his study may well have under-counted in some ways, missing verbal interventions that could not be gleaned from silent video footage. past literature has reported wildly varying rates of bystander action in public conflicts, muddying the outlook further. in one 1983 study, a bystander attempted to resolve conflicts in only 11 percent of cases. but observational studies of barroom attacks reported that a bystander tried to help about a third of the time, and in one recent review of police case files on public attacks, bystanders were found to intervene in almost three-quarters of cases. watch psychologist philip zimbardo and katrina photographer ted jackson discuss the bystander effect, altruism, and the potential for heroism in all of us. at the same time, however, humans learn from experience and adapt to dynamic features of their physical and social settings. when we are feeling threatened, for example, our biological systems for self-preservation get priority over systems that help us socially connect. as a general pattern, people tend to over-focus on immediate threats and desires and on upholding a favorable personal and social identity. this mostly serves our safety and fluidly guides social experience. but under some circumstances, without watchful eyes or collaborative input, our brains can lead us astray. while stories like this one can inspire cynicism, they are also great opportunities for reflection and learning. are there aspects of popular culture and lifestyle that made their choice, alongside the bad legal advice, seem reasonable? the williamses may have blown it, but all things considered, can you say that you would have acted differently? after college, psychologist michael reichert worked as a counselor at family court, helping make recommendations for the many teenage boys caught up in delinquent acts like stealing, fighting, and running away from home. when reading through police and school reports, he would often be struck by how many of these offenders had had extremely troubled, heartbreaking experiences of abuse and neglect. luckily, the news is not all grim. reichert offers some important tips for parents who want to help the boys in their life grow into compassionate men. much of his advice centers around developing closer relationships with boys, while helping them to grow in autonomy and keep their humanity at the forefront. here are some of his recommendations. superstar talent brings the kind of wattage that can power a business to the next level, as recent high-stakes decisions facing soccer legend david beckham show. anita elberse walks with authentic brands ceo jamie salter and soccer star david beckham on the hbs campus. beckham leveled up his talent in 2023, working behind the scenes to draw argentinian legend lionel messi to play for his miami franchise. coming off a world cup win, messi was sought by clubs worldwide. us soccer, despite the investments of beckham and others, remained relatively small, dwarfed by homegrown sports like football and baseball. hbs professor anita elberse and inter miami owner and soccer legend david beckham pass a soccer ball back and forth in harvard stadium. an israeli tank crew killed a reuters reporter in lebanon in october by firing two shells at a clearly identified group of journalists and then "likely" opened fire on them with a heavy machine gun in an attack that lasted 1 minute and 45 seconds, according to a report into the incident published on thursday. reuters could not independently determine if the israeli tank crew knew it was firing on journalists, nor whether it also shot at them with a machine gun and, if so, why. neither of the two surviving reuters reporters or another afp journalist at the scene remembered the machine gun fire. all said they were in shock at the time. international humanitarian law bars attacks on journalists as those in the news media have the full scope of protection granted to civilians and cannot be considered military targets. "we condemn, in the strongest terms, the attack on a clearly identifiable group of journalists, working in the open. the attack killed our colleague issam abdallah and injured several others. we reiterate our calls on israel to explain how this could have happened and to hold those responsible to account," reuters editor-in-chief alessandra galloni said. afp global news director phil chetwynd reiterated his call for a thorough and transparent investigation by the israeli military. "if reports of sustained machine gun fire are confirmed, this would add more weight to the theory this was a targeted and deliberate attack," he said. ihtisham hibatullah, al jazeera's manager of international communications, urged the israeli government to disclose the findings of its own investigation. "this incident strongly indicates intentional targeting, as confirmed by investigations, including by tno," he said. tno noted that the seven journalists were wearing blue flak jackets and helmets, most with "press" written on them in white letters. they had been filming cross-border shelling from a distance in an open area on a hill near the lebanese village of alma al-chaab for nearly an hour before the attack. video footage of the aftermath of the attack also showed a black car belonging to reuters marked "tv" in large yellow letters made out of tape on both the hood and the roof. tno said there was a clear line of sight from where the tank rounds were fired to the scene of the attack. in the live tv feeds ahead of the attack, one or more drones can be heard and an israeli helicopter was also visible overhead in some footage. the institute was able to determine exactly where the two tank rounds came from because it had video of the second round's muzzle blast and flight, in addition to audio files recorded at the scene of the incident. however, the fact the bursts of bullets came so quickly after the tank rounds, coupled with the analysis, led tno to conclude it was "likely" they came from the same place. the independent institute did not offer any other scenario for the origin of the machine gun fire. about 30 seconds after the second tank round, there was a burst of some 25 shots from a machine gun, followed by bursts of nine and 12 shots. just over 30 seconds later, there were three shots, then a single shot and a metallic ping, which may have been the bullet hitting a low wall near the camera, tno said. reuters photographer thaier al-sudani, 47 cameraman maher nazeh, 53, as well as two journalists from al jazeera and another from afp were also wounded in the attack. several of the experts who reviewed the tno report at the request of reuters expressed divergent views about whether the tank crew had deliberately targeted journalists. "the tno report does conclude that it was likely, in addition to the two tank rounds, that machine gun fire came from the same location, and that adds to, or compounds the, deliberateness with which they seem to have been targeted, directly," said jessica dorsey, an expert in international humanitarian law at utrecht university. "and i think that that, from a legal perspective, if this ever got to a courtroom, makes even more of a compelling argument that this was indeed a war crime," she said. however, nick kaufman, a british-israeli lawyer who served in the idf military advocate general's corps and has defended high-profile clients against war crime charges at international criminal tribunals, said it was still unclear why the tank had fired on the reporters. the day after the attack, israel's military said it had visuals of the incident and it was being investigated. no results have been made public. "regardless of whether you're extremely successful or just ordinary, women still make the biggest sacrifices at home," the 28-year-old feminist said at a cafe in the northwestern city of xian. "many who got married in previous generations, especially women, sacrificed themselves and their career development, and didn't get the happy life they were promised. living my own life well is difficult enough nowadays," she told reuters. president xi jinping last year stressed the need to "cultivate a new culture of marriage and childbearing" as china's population fell for a second consecutive year and new births reached historic lows. chinese premier li qiang also vowed to "work towards a birth-friendly society" and boost childcare services in this year's government work report. the communist party views the nuclear family as the bedrock of social stability, with unmarried mothers stigmatised and largely denied benefits. but a growing number of educated women, facing unprecedented insecurity amid record youth unemployment and an economic downturn, are espousing "singleism" instead. after decades of improving women's education levels, workforce participation and social mobility, chinese authorities now face a dilemma as the same group of women have become increasingly resistant to their propaganda. long-term single lifestyles are gradually becoming more widespread in china, giving rise to online communities of mostly single women who seek solidarity from like-minded people. posts with the hashtags "no marriage, no children" from female influencers often in their thirties or forties on xiaohongshu, china's instagram, regularly gain thousands of likes. one anti-marriage forum on douban, another social media platform, has 9,200 members, while another dedicated to "singleism" has 3,600 members who discuss collective retirement plans, among other topics. liao yueyi, a 24-year-old unemployed graduate in the southern city of nanning, recently declared to her mother that she "wakes up from nightmares about having children". "no marriage or kids is a decision i've made after deep consideration. i don't owe anyone an apology, my parents have accepted it," she posted on wechat. instead she has decided to "lie flat" - a chinese expression that means doing just enough to get by - and save money for future travels. "i think it's okay to date or cohabit, but children are a huge asset investment with minimal returns," she said, adding that she has discussed renting a house with some female friends when they all retire. many of the women interviewed cited a desire for self-exploration, disillusionment with patriarchal chinese family dynamics and a lack of "enlightened" male partners as the main factors behind their decision to stay single and childless. gender equality also plays a role: all the women said it was difficult to find a man who valued their autonomy and believed in equal division of household labour. while not all the women interviewed identified as feminist or viewed themselves as deliberately defying the government, their actions reflect a broader trend of chinese female empowerment expressed through personal choices. and even though some analysts believe that the number of people who remain single for life will not grow exponentially in the future, delayed marriages and falling fertility are likely to pose a threat to china's demographic goals. speaking at a news conference on the sidelines of an annual parliament meeting in beijing, wang said exchanges between both countries can only continue if both sides respect and recognize their differences. wang said china would submit a draft resolution on ai to the united nations general assembly, reflecting the need for both development and security. beijing also faces ongoing geopolitical confrontations on multiple fronts, including with europe on trade and the ukraine war, japan across a variety of issues, as well as the philippines over the south china sea, a regional hotbed of competing territorial claims. wang said china is willing to work with russia to foster new drivers of cooperation and consolidate friendship. china and russia had declared a "no limits" partnership in february 2022 when putin visited beijing just days before he sent tens of thousands of troops into ukraine, triggering the deadliest land war in europe since world war two. china currently has a mutual visa waiver agreement with 22 countries, including most recently thailand, singapore and malaysia. china has also unilaterally allowed visa-free entry for citizens from nations such as germany, france, spain, the netherlands and italy for 15 days. those five european nations have yet to reciprocate with a similar arrangement for chinese citizens. but the detection of benzene in the acne treatment products was "substantially different" from the other cases, valisure said. valisure's tests showed some products could form more than 800 times the conditionally restricted fda concentration limit for benzene. criticism from rivals and users and cautionary comments from watchdogs suggest a couple of the six companies may be in the regulatory crosshairs over potential non-compliance in the coming months. yet its introduction of new fees such as a "core technology fee" of 50 euro cents per user account each year even if developers opt not to use apple's app store or payment system has already caught eu antitrust chief margrethe vestager's eye. rivals such as swiss email service proton, meanwhile, have said apple's compliance efforts do not go far enough. however, if total revenues exceed total cost then the firm is said to be making supernormal profits. profits encourage firms to be more competitive, reward entrepreneurs and allow better distribution of scarce resources. i want you to know how much i appreciate your taking care of little eric on tuesday. it is rare to find such kind friends, especially ones who you can call at the last minute. with your help i was able to get to my doctor's appointment on time and get the medication i needed. i'm glad we've become such good friends. i really think the world of you and your entire family. call me when you need a favor. thank you for your kindness last saturday. after my accident i was worried about how i could water the doe's lawn while they were on vacation. it will be two months before i can resume my normal duties, but i certainly want to return the favor. thanks for being such a great friend. thank you for helping with the clean-up campaign. your generosity meant a lot to the other volunteers, and your energy and positive attitude helped us get the facilities painted in record time. thanks for being such a good friend to the shelter. we will never forget your example. thank you very much for coming in last saturday to help us get our new product shipped on time. it was close, but we met our deadline, thanks to you and the others who gave up part of their weekend to help out. your dedication and hard work are greatly appreciated. employees like you are what make the doe corporation great! we are very sorry that your toaster does not function as you expected. before we ship any toaster, we double-check every function, so your problem may be one you can solve quite easily. when the bread does not go down, you can usually correct the problem by rotating the screw on the bottom of the toaster a turn or two to the right. if that adjustment does not solve the problem, simply return the toaster to our nearest outlet to receive a replacement or a refund. your doe toaster should give you many years of trouble-free service. we were sorry that the magazine you received last month lacked the center pages. we pride ourselves on producing error-free copies, but apparently one slipped through. we are sending you another copy immediately. please call us toll free at 555-5555 if you do not receive it within the next few days. thank you for letting us serve you. i am sorry the blazer we sent you was the wrong size. such errors are rare, but unfortunately do occur from time to time. we have shipped you another blazer, which you should receive in a day or two. please use the packing materials and the enclosed prepaid shipping label to send the original blazer back to us. i feel i must apologize to you personally for misquoting your comment on the bond issue. i know how frustrating it can be to work hard for a cause and then have it misrepresented to those who will benefit most from it. the misunderstanding came when we transcribed your comments from a damaged tape recording of your talk thursday evening. i apologize for my most inappropriate behavior at your dinner party. i realize you were counting on a relaxing evening, and my lack of restraint must have taxed you greatly. please understand that this is not my normal mode of behavior. i hope you will accept these flowers as a token of my apology, and consider joining me for a relaxing dinner party at my home in the near future. my comments about your withdrawal from the project were inexcusable. i realize that i do not know all the issues. sometimes i am too quick to comment before having all the facts. had i known about your accident, i surely would have held my tongue. i am so sorry i missed our appointment last tuesday morning. it must have been very upsetting for you to make all the effort to get to my office on time, only to have me fail to arrive. unfortunately, my daughter was involved in a car accident, and everything else simply slipped my mind. would you prefer to reschedule next time you are in springfield, or simply speak on the phone? i will be visiting centerville during the week of june 10, and we could arrange to meet then if you like. in any case, when we do meet, let me take you out to lunch. i look forward to hearing from you. this is very embarrassing for me to have to admit, but i simply cannot find the book you lent me. i have searched everywhere i can think of, but it seems to have disappeared. i'm very sorry, john, particularly as you warned me that it is out of print. i have contacted all the second-hand bookstores in town, and they have agreed to look out for it, and doe books also told me about a book search service located in springfield. i am waiting to hear back from them. i will keep on trying until i locate another copy in good condition for you, but in the meantime i ask you please to accept my sincere apologies. in order to dispel any rumors, the management wants to inform each of you that there will be no christmas bonus this year. because of the economic downturn, we must cut costs somewhere, and we feel that cutting the bonus is preferable to laying off an employee or reducing hours. doe has experienced downturns before and rebounded perfectly well. we are confident this slump will improve as spring arrives. should any other changes arise, we will candidly inform you. continue your excellent work and keep an eye on the future of doe technologies. as you may know, a new state law taking effect january 1 requires that employers provide a smoke-free workplace for their employees. in compliance with this law, after the first of the year smoking will be prohibited at doe industries except during break time in designated smoking areas. we are sorry for the inconvenience this causes our employees who smoke, but we believe this will promote a cleaner and healthier working environment for everyone. we appreciate your understanding and cooperation as this new policy is implemented. we regret to announce that because of the untimely death of our company president, john doe, our annual company picnic, scheduled for saturday, has been cancelled. we realize that this will cause disappointment, especially for our employees' children; however, we feel it is the best decision under the circumstances. we invite you to spend time with your families that day remembering john and the influence he had on all of us. i have just learned of your divorce and want you to know i am here to offer support. i know it may be one of the hardest things you will have to endure in your life. please know that there is still a lot to look forward to. you know i have been divorced five years, and with time the pain does go away. know that i care about you and want you to be happy. my heart aches for you at this trying time, and i felt that i must let you know how deeply sorry i am about your divorce. i know this must be a painful experience, and i hope it will not be long before the clouds start to lift. i don't want to intrude, but i do want to be a supportive friend. please call if you need anything or if you just want to talk. i heard about your decision to divorce john and want you to know that my thoughts often are with you both. i have just learned of the devastating fire that occurred at your warehouse on friday. i have some sense of the seriousness of your loss and would like to help. i have room in my large warehouse on maple lane that you can use until you rebuild. i will call you later in the week to see if there is anything else i can do to help. how unfair that you should be victimized by the unkindness of another! i am sorry to hear about the robbery you and your family endured. i know such crimes make victims feel terribly violated. if the strength your family has displayed during past crises is any indication of your resiliency, this upset will only be temporary. if the children need attending to after school until they overcome the shock, please send them over. i was very sorry to hear of your terrible loss saturday evening. none of us was prepared for that tornado, and i couldn't believe how devastating the damage was to our community, and especially to your home. yet in spite of it all, you supported and comforted all those around you. you have been an inspiration to us all, and you deserve equal attention. even after we get things cleaned up, please feel free to call on me for anything you may need. i am ready and willing to help. i will consider it a great honor to serve as honorary chairperson and to grant permission to your organization to use my name for promotional purposes. prior commitments, however, dictate that i must participate in name only. nevertheless, i am immensely interested in your progress and would appreciate you sending me literature for each goal you undertake. i am both surprised and excited that your organization selected me to serve as an honorary board member for your project. because i have long had an interest in your cause, i am eager to lend my support. since i am currently involved in another movement that consumes my time, i am afraid i will be able to participate on a nominal level only. however, to show my support i would enjoy reviewing your literature and offering some suggestions. thank you for extending such a compliment to me by inviting me to serve as an honorary member for your fund-raiser. i appreciate the confidence you have shown in me. prior commitments make it impossible for me to attend personally, but rest assured that you have my full support in your objectives. as an avid supporter of your cause, i hope my modest contribution will help. i sincerely hope your fund-raising attempts meet with great success. i believe that you will accomplish much good as you realize your goals. i am flattered that you selected me to serve as the honorary grand marshal of the springfield festival. because i support the good this event accomplishes for the community, i accept your invitation, with the understanding that my personal involvement will be limited to the event itself. i would also like a contract describing how your organization will use my name in promotional materials. our family has always looked forward to the annual springfield festival and we anticipate another enjoyable occasion this year. i am responding to your advertisement in the doe post inviting applications for a position in chemical engineering. i am currently a research chemist for johnson chemical corporation where i enjoy my work, but i would prefer participating in your research program on new plastics. i have worked on a number of projects dealing with different polymerization processes and am involved in researching aeronautical applications of polyethylene products. my interest in plastics began at doe university, where i wrote my graduate thesis on early uses of polyethylene. i am enclosing my resume and look forward to an opportunity for a personal interview. last week i spoke with jane doe about the clinical director position at your facility. we both agreed that the job matches perfectly with my goals and qualifications. i spent six years as clinical coordinator in charge of two 26-bed units at the springfield facility. in that position i developed two new programs that are now widely used in clinical treatment. my postgraduate fellowship in clinical research at springfield university has prepared me to manage the experimental units at the main clinic. the attached resume will provide more details about my experience and education. i am eager to meet with you to discuss how my qualifications could meet your needs. the years spent in the english department have prepared me for the challenges of writing for a variety of readers, and much of my creative writing has been published. also, under the guidance of dr. doe i have directed my efforts within archaeology toward writing. archaeology needs writers to make it interesting, especially in this time of budget cuts and battles over land use. i am applying for the teaching position you advertised in the springfield herald. as you will notice from my enclosed resume, i have several years' experience as an english teacher and i recently earned my ma degree from springfield university. during my graduate work i was particularly interested in adult education and did my thesis research in this area. although my associate degree in accounting was acquired more than 20 years ago, i have built extensively on the skills i learned at school, including taking formal classes, several of them related to computer literacy. these are described in more detail in the attached resume. last saturday i visited your showroom in springfield and ordered an oak desk and two matching three-drawer filing cabinets for my study. when i arrived home this evening, i found the furniture had been delivered in my absence, but the filing cabinets were the four-drawer style. unfortunately, i can use only the three-drawer style because i lack room for anything higher. i will appreciate having these cabinets picked up and exchanged for the ones i ordered as soon as possible. please call to arrange a time when i will be home. i trust this matter can be resolved very quickly, so i can get my files organized soon. on march 17 i ordered a box of letterhead stationery for our central office in springfield. we received your shipment within one week, but the letterhead carried another firm's address. this spring i requested a yard waste recycling can, which i promptly paid for upon delivery. it was my understanding that the waste would be picked up each monday and taken to the city recycling site, but i have observed that my yard waste is being dumped into the regular household garbage truck and hauled to the landfill. i object to this breach of trust. please see that the yard waste is indeed recycled, or refund my money. i would like to register a complaint regarding the ridiculous traffic enforcement practices adopted the last three thursday evenings at the intersection of main and elm streets in springfield. on thursdays doe's tavern holds an informal "cruise in" and sells tacos at half price with the profits donated to a variety of charities. the participants, owners and admirers of customized cars and motorcycles, enjoy the weekly event because of the opportunity to show off and admire the vehicles in a friendly atmosphere. on the last three thursdays, however, springfield's finest have blocked elm street at main to all traffic from the south. this is done, the officers say, to prevent backups at this intersection. the roadblock necessitates a long detour around the north side of springfield, and the backup created by the roadblock stretched much further than it ever did before this enforcement began. the resentment and tension among the cruise in's participants is an unhealthy byproduct of this silly policy. the weekly event has existed for over four years with a minimum of problems; there have been more confrontations between motorists and police as a result of this enforcement than in the last four years combined. i would very much like to see an official review of this enforcement practice. look specifically at the efficiency of the roadblock. if the police wish to shut down doe's cruise in, let them attempt to do so through viable, straightforward means. thank you for inviting us to be part of jane's graduation celebration. we're eager to see you all again. this event will make seeing you even more special. we look forward to spending this time with you and getting better acquainted with jane and her husband. i was pleased that you would invite me to attend jane's retirement party. i appreciate your kind offer to pick me up at home, but i will already be in springfield that day and plan to drive to the party myself. i appreciate your thinking of me, and i look forward to seeing old friends again. nine out of ten of doe's job skill students have advanced to better employment. attend my accelerated course, and you'll be wearing the uniform in no time. it's a terrific job for someone who loves skiing. the satisfaction is unsurpassed, and you get to do what you love--ski. don't miss this exciting opportunity to become certified in the ski patrol. fill out the enclosed reply card to secure your spot in the upcoming session. how can all this be done? by simply understanding the dynamics of stock trading. as you know, we discussed these problems in detail on thursday, may 6, in your quarterly review. i told you then that you had no more sick days. i also reviewed with you the various ailments that you claimed to be suffering from when you called in sick the thirteen times prior to our meeting. after our discussion, you said you were feeling much better. i also informed you that if you were to call in sick once more without medical verification, we would terminate your employment. you and i discussed some of these problems last month at your quarterly review. i have enclosed a copy of that review for your benefit. you will remember that i expressed my hope that your performance would improve. you promised then that you would schedule your time better and finish all work as promised. these new complaints indicate that you have not been successful. i will give you one more chance. service is central to our business and timely service is paramount. you can expect a review at the end of this month. if there is one new customer complaint, i will terminate your employment. so that you understand, i want to stress that the average number of complaints in our employee files is one per employee per year. you have four already this month. you are on probation for three months as of the date of this letter. your authorization to remove any car from the lot during the day or night is revoked. if you do drive any car alone within the next three months, you will be terminated. doe cannot afford the legal liability this practice carries. if, after three months, you have demonstrated that you are trustworthy, i will restore your prior work status. i hope you can put this practice behind you. i need your help during these busy months and value your work ethic. we know you all join us in wishing jane well as she starts a new chapter in her interesting life. we know she is eager to catch up on the traveling and writing she loves so much. we hope you will be able to join us for dinner as we express our appreciation to her. we know you all join us in wishing jane well as she starts a new chapter in her interesting life. we know she is eager to catch up on the traveling and writing she loves so much. we hope you will be able to join us for dinner as we express our appreciation to her. many of you are now aware that john doe has accepted a position in kansas. john will be the sales director for doe corporation. i am very excited for john; however, he will be greatly missed here in springfield. his positive attitude and abundance of energy have helped make our office a pleasant place to work. currently, i have no plans to replace john. jane doe will assume full responsibility for his clients. it is with mixed emotions that i announce the retirement of jane doe, our department secretary. she has provided us with 37 years of devoted service. i don't know how we will get along without her! jane's attention to detail, while keeping the broader picture in mind, has been invaluable. her willingness to put in extra time and effort to help us meet deadlines has demonstrated a commitment to excellence that we have come to depend upon. i personally owe her a debt of gratitude for all the times she has helped keep me on track, on time, and within our budget. in addition to her incredible competence and skill, she has been a friend to all with her thoughtfulness and quiet encouragement. please be advised that beginning march 1, sales territories and quotas will be restructured, as you see from the attachment. some changes may seem illogical, but rest assured that they have been made after careful consideration. one of our concerns has been that sales representatives have been spending more than half of their working nights away from their families. this creates undesirable stress for both the family and the company. we believe these adjustments will alleviate the stress to benefit all. we welcome your input and suggestions as we make the transition. we anticipate increased sales with this change since we can spend more time selling and less time traveling. good luck to everyone in their new assignments. if there are any questions or concerns, please don't hesitate to call. at john doe's request, we are restructuring your management responsibilities. we respect and want to honor your desire to relocate to springfield to be near your ailing mother. john will assume the centerville operations. the springfield position is very much as you left it, so you will be at home there. i know this is a good move for you and trust you will make your expertise available to john as he steps in. jane in personnel can answer any questions you may have about the relocation. i request that you correct our notice to reflect the actual value on which we are to be taxed. if this correspondence is not sufficient to justify the correction, please let me know what i need to do. i trust this change can be made before my taxes are due. i am writing in support of the uniform tax bill. i am a small business owner supporting five full-time employees and my own family of six. i am also a member of the middle class, which bears the largest share of the tax burden, and i am not opposed to paying my fair share. i have carefully studied the uniform tax bill and i believe it would equalize the burden. the argument that those with the highest incomes would not pay their fair share simply does not hold up with this legislation. i request that you use your considerable influence in support of this bill. many of us are generating support at the local level. best wishes for success--for us all. the clerk's duties require filing accurate court records, overseeing the court clerk's duties, organizing voter registration, and scheduling elections. john understands the importance of keeping good records and of dealing congenially with the public. he is honest, reliable, and willing to work the long hours needed for the position. i believe john doe is the person best qualified to be our next county clerk. with proud enthusiasm, i support jane doe as our party's candidate for delegate to the state assembly. this chapter sets out an optimistic view of philosophical progress. the key idea is that the historical record speaks in favor of there being progress at least if we are clear about what philosophical problems are, and what it takes to solve them. i end by asking why so many people tend toward a pessimistic view of philosophical progress. exhibit a is perhaps the most famous philosophical problem of them all, namely, the mind-body problem as formulated by descartes. as we all know, in the meditations and other works, descartes argued that the existence of consciousness or thought is inconsistent with the truth of materialism, and that consequently a certain sort of dualism is true. and his contemporaries, including thomas hobbes, antoine arnauld, and princess elisabeth of bohemia, objected to what he said in various ways. of course these are only two examples. but they are very central ones. indeed, it is hard to think of two problems more squarely philosophical than the mind-body problem chez descartes and the induction problem chez hume. moreover, the examples are, i think, illustrative of a very common way in which philosophical problems are ultimately solved: they get solved by expanding the possibilities of what a truth is or what a reasonable belief is; they get solved, that is, when we realize that a boundary thesis that seems or seemed plausible needs to be modified or given up altogether. how might one object to this suggestion? as with any topic in philosophy, the issues here are complex and there are many highways and byways to pursue. but for reasons of space, i will concentrate on three main lines of criticism. however, while it is true that there is often a successor problem, this by itself is no criticism of reasonable optimism. for we should not suppose that we make progress on some problem in philosophy only if no successor problem can be formulated. that is a very implausible idea, and the reason is that, if applied consistently, it would entail that there is no progress in any field whatsoever. it is true that if the successor problem is the same as the original, then reasonable optimism is in trouble, but it is also true that at least in many cases the successor problem is not the same as the original. as we have seen, for example, the contemporary problem about materialism and consciousness is distinct from that posed by descartes. for descartes the problem turns on the identification of matter and extension, whereas for contemporary philosophers it certainly does not turn on that. however, while this negativity objection is common, it is also subject to two straightforward replies, at least if we construe it as an objection to the line of thought we have been considering. first, it misunderstands the structure of boundary problems. these problems are inconsistent triads, and so solving them will always involve giving up something. that is how the issues are structured. so it is a confusion to say that solving them by rejecting something is merely negative progress. indeed, this is a general feature of any problem that may be presented as a sort of paradox. if we have a set of plausible premises that lead to an unbelievable conclusion, we know a priori the premises and the negation of the conclusion cannot all be true. and this means that to resolve the paradox you must say something negative. if you insist on solving the problem and on not saying anything negative, you have insisted on not solving the problem. in response, i think we should grant that philosophers often want theories or explanations of various phenomena they have been interested in. but i also think that when we reflect on this issue, here too it emerges that philosophers have been successful. philosophers may not be interested in causal explanations, but they are certainly interested in constitutive explanations. when we ask, for example, what consciousness is, or what morality is, or what knowledge is, i think it is indeed plausible to say that what we want is some information about the constitutive structure of the world, or at least of those parts of the structure that contain, or seem to contain, consciousness, morality and knowledge. have we made progress on problems of this sort? well, once we have the lewis-inspired idea about explanation before us, this question becomes whether the information that we currently provide about these constitutive structures is an improvement on the information that we have provided in the past. but if that is the way the question is asked, it is difficult to deny that it should be answered in the affirmative. surely the information that we provide in philosophy of mind, for example, about the nature of conscious states is better along the several dimensions lewis sets out in his discussion of explaining well or badly. consider the idea that conscious states consist of awareness of properties, rather than simply the instantiation of properties, which is an idea that in one or another form dominates contemporary attempts at providing constitutive explanations of consciousness. this is a very plausible idea, one that is assumed in many otherwise different approaches to philosophy of mind. even philosophers who deny it typically deny only that it is applicable to all conscious states; very few deny it is applicable to many. hence, this sort of view about mental states provides better information about constitutive structures associated with consciousness than we had before. it is, in short, an example of progress on a problem that is not a boundary problem. to the extent that it too is representative, we have reasonable optimism. this already suggests the direction of the non-contingent relation advocated by vmp, which is the same direction endorsed by socrates against euthyphro: according to the vmper, euthyphro is as confused about aesthetic value as he is about piety. excellent artworks, graceful movements, majestic castles and many more objects that we correctly marvel at for their aesthetic qualities are not aesthetically valuable because they give pleasure. rather, they merit our pleasure insofar as they are aesthetically valuable. in being aesthetically valuable objects, they merit, deserve or call for a positive affective experience: a feeling of pleasure or liking. note that the following eight characteristics are introduced in order of generality: from the most general characteristics of pleasure as such, to the most specific characteristics of aesthetic pleasure. we start by what seems to be true of all pleasures, and gradually zoom in to get a close-up on aesthetic pleasure. legal normativity is particularly puzzling for those who think about law from within a positivistic framework, which is the dominant approach in 20th century and contemporary legal philosophy. briefly, positivists hold the view that law is something that is posited.  law, in other words, is made by people and institutions and is, therefore, a human artifact, a feature of individual and social behavior and psychology. given that law is grounded in facts, the puzzle has been to explain the apparent normative nature of law. simply put, how can social, behavioral and psychological facts give rise to norms? and if so, what sort of norms are these? the multiple projects response is thus committed to the claim that legal actors are sometimes mistaken in their understanding of their own activities. perhaps this sort of attribution of error to legal practitioners is not really a problem. consider, for instance, the oft-repeated claim in the history and philosophy of science that scientists are often bad at understanding what they are doing when they are engaged in scientific activity. perhaps there is no reason to think that the situation is any different in the case of law. after all, why should we expect practitioners to be adept sociologists and anthro- pologists of their own activity? if that skepticism is on the right track, then why worry about the attribution of error involved in the multiple projects response? in 2008's reflections, timothy hutton plays a europol agent, tom brindle, who travels to barcelona to find a serial killer called pygmalion. marco agrees to cooperate because it's believed that even though separated, he may share some of the same characteristics, hobbies, etc. as his twin and can be of help tracking him down. interesting idea not very well executed by a somewhat boring and slow film that nonetheless has some excellent acting by timothy hutton. if anyone ever started out on a high note, it was hutton. i'm not sure what happened except that he should be where sean penn is today. this is a "columbo" style story. you're told who the killer is early on and then the story centres on the detective's chase and apprehension of the criminal. i much prefer the "miss marple" whodunnit murder mystery as it has the ability to bring the viewer into the story more. another issue with the film is the number of secondary cast members there are. this is detrimental to the film as it draws the story and the viewer away from the heart and vitality of the story. there's one scene that should have been critical to timothy hutton's character, tom as he comes face to face with the death of his love. however, due to the story being stuffed to overflowing with superfluous scenes and characters we never get the time to relate fully to this pair's relationship so we don't feel tom's loss and anger at that scene. that said, the rest of the cast are pretty good in their portrayals of their characters. director bryan goeres keeps the tempo of the film to an average pace. once again, i think he could have infused a little suspense and tension by fluctuating the pace accordingly. if it wasn't for hutton and the hope for a twist in the ending, as my imagination had conjured up a few, i would've hit the off button. then, when the twist comes, it's the obvious one. boy did i feel let down, not just because the twist was the most obvious but because the story which led to it could have been improved by better showing the progression to the twist. if you like timothy hutton or "columbo" style movies then you may like this but don't expect too much from it. otherwise, i would say, stay away. despite the overwhelming focus on the investigation portion of the storyline, the way the writers have tom "connecting" things is often times ridiculous, especially in the latter part of the film that leads up to the finale. entire sections of the film felt rushed, and it seemed that they tried to push too much into the conclusion without having previously developed it much at all. it's the story of an experienced interpol inspector on the hunt for a serial killer, on the loose in the northwestern part of the mediterranean. ambition ruled over skill, so many parts of the movie are clumsily executed. the first big miss is hiring timothy hutton. hutton is unmotivated and frankly comes across as a bit of a prick. and i'm not referring to his role. the other roles are better cast, although generally the movie could have used some reliable values in some of the smaller roles, notably hutton's colleagues. indeed, the audience was perhaps the greatest problem with this very good film. it was filled with matrons, who found it necessary to shriek loudly and giggle hideously through three-quarters of it, and their husbands, who delivered obligatory guffaws in counterpoint. they had never seen anything funnier in their lives, i guess, than brando nervously brushing down his hair when he thinks a handsome young private is coming to see him. mildred loving, uniquely and beautifully portrayed in loving by oscar-nominated newcomer ruth negga, is a modern hero not only in her fight to simply be herself but she is a metaphor for the liberation of all americans, black, white, female, or otherwise. though the movie is essentially both a woman and a man's story, i like the way mildred's character develops and evolves during the course of the movie, from a young woman who simply quietly exists in the american stream of things to one who sets an example of heroism for her children, her husband, and community. negga's portrayal is inventive in that she generally underplays her character, adding to the character's depth, appeal, charm, and interest. the story in some ways is understated but in other ways profound. details are often very specific and ordinary but presented with sometimes plodding interest. the movie starts very fast, then slows like a long slow drink of wine, excluding sexual exploitation of the couple's intimate sex life, which says it is none of the viewer's business. the depiction of blacks and whites in general is inventive and dynamic, the mother-in-law, for example, a masterful characterization and supporting thespian accomplishment. the depiction of rich's best friend, who is black, is warm and time-original. finally, i wanted to work on the real meat of the review; the theme! in my revision, i attempted to up the sophistication of the claims that i was making in addition to backing them up. i really tried to make sure i was telling my hypothetical readers why this movie was important and the things they could potentially take away from the film. i wanted to dig deeper into the different emotions the film was attempting to drive out of its viewers, and i am very satisfied with the changes i made. one of the best films ever about education has been making the rounds lately in indie theatres and other venues around the country: most likely to succeed. the documentary convincingly makes the case for changing our outdated education system, and focuses on high tech high in san diego and its pbl-infused program. the executive producer is venture capitalist ted dintersmith, and greg whiteley produced, wrote and directed this lively and dramatic story that appeals to both hearts and minds. dintersmith also co-authored a book with tony wagner with the same title. intercut across these encounters are short, powerful interviews with houlbolt and queere, shot in contrast in vibrant color; a red backdrop for the clown to match his painted nose, and blue for freckles. while brief, these interviews are just as shocking for their honesty as they are for their brevity as the unseen interviewer leads each figure to talk about subjects such as fear, death, love and hope. across these two components of the film, sullivan carefully builds an abstracted yet powerful microcosm where the often imperceptible nuances of family relationships can suddenly shatter, exploding in violence. this points to a central tension in the book- to focus on each day or, to have some medium-to-long term plan for life. i think the answer lies in a balance of the two; either extreme is probably unhelpful. similarly, thinking about death all the time can be disorienting, but being completely oblivious of death can induce regretful choices for people. description of the elucidated concepts demonstrates a reflection and learning beyond just summarizing what the author illuminates. it is factual that the book offers crucial information regarding immigration and birth control in western nations; nonetheless, a reflection structured from these concerns thwarts numerous opinions and demonstrates a very different view. the author may be one of the greatest racists ever met on earth. this is evident in his alienated opinions of which most of them are against the idea of having more blacks than whites in the near future. it creates an illusion that other races are worthless and never on earth should they exist more than they currently do. he declines to regard the holocaust or jewish apprehensions as well as influence when tackling his themes. it is arguable that the author is aware of the many daunting problems that western nations are undergoing, but diverts his attention to the other insignificant ones under the pretext that he is foreseeing an unbearable future. so basically we have to do a reflection on what we learnt from a specific book. i chose animal farm, and here's the reflection, not very good so far. people only need to change their mindsets pertaining to the existence of privileges and power. they need to join hands in discussing these issues openly neglecting the shame-blame notions portrayed by many. to pose a suggestion, they need to look at the present state of the society, identify the prevailing problems, think of their relevant solutions, and then cooperate to implement them. the game began development in 2010, carrying over a large portion of the work done on valkyria chronicles ii. while it retained the standard features of the series, it also underwent multiple adjustments, such as making the game more forgiving for series newcomers. character designer raita honjou and composer hitoshi sakimoto both returned from previous entries, along with valkyria chronicles ii director takeshi ozawa. a large team of writers handled the script. the game's opening theme was sung by may'n. the soldiers would be allowed safe passage in any direction carrying any personal and public property besides munitions of war. the soldiers would be allowed to march away as men leaving under orders, not as conquered and surrendering soldiers. on the morning of february 8, 1861, rector and totten signed an agreement placing the arsenal in the hands of state officials. that afternoon, the citizen militia marched to the arsenal with governor rector at its head. all of the federal troops had left at this point, except totten who had stayed behind to listen to the governor's speech and to hand the arsenal over in person. the little rock arsenal was classified in 1860 as an " arsenal of deposit, " meaning that it was simply a warehouse for the storage of weapons intended for the use of the state militia in times of crisis. thus there were no substantial operations for ordnance fabrication or repairs, nor for the manufacture of cartridges at the time the arsenal fell into state hands. most of these operations were started from scratch through the efforts of the arkansas military board. in 1997, the museum of science and natural history merged with the little rock children's museum, which had been located in union station, to form the arkansas museum of discovery. the new museum was relocated to a historic building in the little rock river market district. the macarthur museum of arkansas military history opened on may 19, 2001 in the tower building. the new museum's goal is to educate and inform visitors about the military history of arkansas, preserve the tower building, honor servicemen and servicewomen of the united states and commemorate the birthplace of douglas macarthur. in the late 1920s, barker began to doubt she was doing enough for the church and considered focusing solely on sacred works. family and friends recommended she continue secular and sacred works, which she did. barker continued to attend evening classes at the croydon art school between the 1920s and the 1940s, eventually receiving a teaching position. she took sketching trips to amberley and storrington in sussex and to cornwall and the southern coast with family and friends. she visited and stayed with artist margaret tarrant in gomshall, surrey and with family in ugglebarnby, near whitby, north yorkshire. the development of women's football in africa faces several challenges, including limited access to education, poverty amongst women, inequalities and human rights abuses targeting women. funding is another issue impacting the game in africa, where most financial assistance comes from fifa and not national football associations. another challenge is the retention of football players. many women footballers leave the continent to seek greater opportunity in europe or the united states. the plain maskray generally hunts at the surface of the bottom substrate, rather than digging for prey. its diet consists predominantly of caridean shrimp and polychaete worms. small bony fishes are also eaten, along with the occasional penaeid prawn or amphipod. larger rays consume a greater variety of prey and relatively more polychaete worms when compared to smaller rays. this species is parasitized by the tapeworm acanthobothrium jonesi. the tower had two floors and a mezzanine. on the first floor was the famous sundial room or meridian room, which was initially an open loggia. pope urban viii had it enclosed and it was subsequently decorated with long sequences of frescoes painted between 1580 and 1582 by simon lagi and the two flemish artists paul and matthijs bril. today the tower has paintings by cristoforo roncalli and matteino da siena. the accompanying music video begins with a shot of an empty street, followed by clips of disadvantaged and poorer members of society going about their daily activities. two men play dominoes on a wooden crate outside a building, a gang make fun of an elderly man hanging newspapers outside his store and an obese woman walks down the street. clips of carey leaning against a wall and sitting on some steps looking on at what is happening are shown. as the first chorus begins, everyone starts to dance joyfully in the street and help those in need. a gospel choir comes out of one of the buildings as the street becomes more crowded with people of all ages and backgrounds rejoicing and getting along with each other. one of the shops in the background has a neon light outside the entrance which says " jesus saves ". while fingal was discharging her cargo, bulloch went to richmond to confer with stephen mallory, secretary of the navy. mallory endorsed bulloch's plan to load fingal with cotton to sell on the navy department's account to be used to purchase more ships and equipment in europe. he returned to savannah on 23 november and it took him almost a month to purchase a cargo and acquire enough coal. he made one attempt to break through the blockade on 23 december, but it proved impossible to do as the union controlled every channel from savannah, aided by their occupation of tybee island at the mouth of the savannah river. bulloch reported to mallory in late january 1862 that breaking out was hopeless so mallory ordered him to turn the ship over to another officer and to return to europe some other way. in the early evening of 15 june, webb began his next attempt by passing over the lower obstructions in the wilmington river and spent the rest of the night coaling. he moved forward the next evening to a concealed position within easy reach of the monitors for an attack early the following morning. webb planned to sink one of the monitors with his spar torpedo and then deal with the other one with his guns. the gunboat isondiga and the tugboat resolute were to accompany him to tow one or both of the monitors back to savannah. according to fernandez, she had aspired to become an actress at a young age and fantasized about becoming a hollywood movie star. she received some training at the john school of acting. although, she was a television reporter, she accepted offers in the modeling industry, which came as a result of her pageant success. in 2006, she was crowned the winner of the miss universe sri lanka pageant and represented sri lanka at the world miss universe 2006 pageant held in los angeles. in a 2015 interview, fernandez described the modeling industry as " a good training ground " and said: " it is a medium that is about shedding your inhibitions, knowing your body, confidence ". in 2006, she appeared in a music video for the song " o sathi " by music duo bathiya and santhush. at the same time, his mother loretta was diagnosed with skin cancer. following her death early in his freshman year, cullen contemplated returning to his ontario home, but was convinced by his father to continue with both school and hockey. he used the game to cope with the loss and dedicated every game he played to his mother's memory. cullen felt that the inspiration he drew from his mother's battle allowed him to become a better player. on one day during his treatments, as his wife was wheeling him down a hospital corridor, cullen went into cardiac arrest, requiring doctors to use a defibrillator to revive him. he underwent a bone marrow transplant that briefly reduced his immune system to the point that he could have very little human contact. another examination in april 1998 revealed that the cancer was finally gone, and cullen immediately began training for a comeback. however, a bout of bronchitis led cullen to fear that his cancer had returned. tests came back negative, but after spending time with his family, he realized that neither he nor his family were interested in returning to cleveland. cullen announced his retirement on november 28, 1998, and accepted the lightning offer to become an assistant coach. in recognition of his comeback attempt, the nhl named him the 1999 winner of the bill masterton memorial trophy for dedication and perseverance, while the ihl renamed its comeback player of the year award the john cullen award. cullen's battle with cancer inspired timm harmon of the moffitt cancer centre to partner with the lightning to raise awareness and money for cancer research. the nhl itself joined the cause in the winter of 1998, creating the hockey fights cancer program to raise money for research. cullen has spent time promoting the initiative. ancient egyptian deities are the gods and goddesses worshipped in ancient egypt. the beliefs and rituals surrounding these gods formed the core of ancient egyptian religion, which emerged sometime in prehistory. deities represented natural forces and phenomena, and the egyptians supported and appeased them through offerings and rituals so that these forces would continue to function according to maat, or divine order. after the founding of the egyptian state around 3100 bc, the authority to perform these tasks was controlled by the pharaoh, who claimed to be the gods' representative and managed the temples where the rituals were carried out. gods were assumed to be present throughout the world, capable of influencing natural events and the course of human lives. people interacted with them in temples and unofficial shrines, for personal reasons as well as for larger goals of state rites. egyptians prayed for divine help, used rituals to compel deities to act, and called upon them for advice. humans' relations with their gods were a fundamental part of egyptian society. predynastic egypt originally consisted of small, independent villages. because many deities in later times were strongly tied to particular towns and regions, many scholars have suggested that the pantheon formed as disparate communities coalesced into larger states, spreading and intermingling the worship of the old local deities. but others have argued that the most important predynastic gods were, like other elements of egyptian culture, present all across the country despite the political divisions within it. the final step in the formation of egyptian religion was the unification of egypt, in which rulers from upper egypt made themselves pharaohs of the entire country. these sacred kings and their subordinates assumed the exclusive right to interact with the gods, and kingship became the unifying focus of the religion. modern knowledge of egyptian beliefs about the gods is mostly drawn from religious writings produced by the nation's scribes and priests. these people were the elite of egyptian society and were very distinct from the general populace, most of whom were illiterate. little is known about how well this broader population knew or understood the sophisticated ideas that the elite developed. commoners' perceptions of the divine may have differed from those of the priests. the populace may, for example, have mistaken the religion's symbolic statements about the gods and their actions for literal truth. but overall, what little is known about popular religious belief is consistent with the elite tradition. the two traditions form a largely cohesive vision of the gods and their nature. divine behavior was believed to govern all of nature. except for the few deities who disrupted the divine order, the gods' actions maintained maat and created and sustained all living things. they did this work using a force the egyptians called heka, a term usually translated as " magic ". heka was a fundamental power that the creator god used to form the world and the gods themselves. the first divine act is the creation of the cosmos, described in several creation myths. they focus on different gods, each of which may act as creator deities. the eight gods of the ogdoad, who represent the chaos that precedes creation, give birth to the sun god, who establishes order in the newly formed world; ptah, who embodies thought and creativity, gives form to all things by envisioning and naming them; atum produces all things as emanations of himself; and amun, according to the myths promoted by his priesthood, preceded and created the other creator gods. these and other versions of the events of creation were not seen as contradictory. each gives a different perspective on the complex process by which the organized universe and its many deities emerged from undifferentiated chaos. the period following creation, in which a series of gods rule as kings over the divine society, is the setting for most myths. the gods struggle against the forces of chaos and among each other before withdrawing from the human world and installing the historical kings of egypt to rule in their place. gods were linked with specific regions of the universe. in egyptian tradition, the world includes the earth, the sky, and the duat. surrounding them is the dark formlessness that existed before creation. the gods in general were said to dwell in the sky, although gods whose roles were linked with other parts of the universe were said to live in those places instead. most events of mythology, set in a time before the gods' withdrawal from the human realm, take place in an earthly setting. the deities there sometimes interact with those in the sky. the duat, in contrast, is treated as a remote and inaccessible place, and the gods who dwell there have difficulty communicating with those in the world of the living. the space outside the cosmos is also said to be very distant. it too is inhabited by deities, some hostile and some beneficial to the other gods and their orderly world. in egyptian belief, names express the fundamental nature of the things to which they refer. in keeping with this belief, the names of deities often relate to their roles or origins. the name of the predatory goddess sekhmet means " powerful one ", the name of the mysterious god amun means " hidden one ", and the name of the goddess nekhbet, who was worshipped in the city of nekheb, means " she of nekheb ". but many other names have no certain meaning, even when the gods who bear them are closely tied to a single role. the names of the sky goddess nut and the earth god geb do not resemble the egyptian terms for sky and earth. the egyptians also devised false etymologies giving more meanings to divine names. a passage in the coffin texts renders the name of the funerary god sokar as sk r, meaning " cleaning of the mouth ", to link his name with his role in the opening of the mouth ritual, while one in the pyramid texts says the name is based on words shouted by osiris, connecting sokar with the most important funerary deity. the gods were believed to have many names. among them were secret names that conveyed their true natures more profoundly than others. to know the true name of a deity was to have power over it. the importance of names is demonstrated by a myth in which isis poisons the superior god ra and refuses to cure him unless he reveals his secret name to her. upon learning the name, she tells it to her son, horus, and by learning it they gain greater knowledge and power. egyptian deities are connected in a complex and shifting array of relationships. a god's connections and interactions with other deities helped define its character. thus isis, as the mother and protector of horus, was a great healer as well as the patroness of kings. such relationships were the base material from which myths were formed. family relationships are a common type of connection between gods. deities often form male and female pairs, reflecting the importance of procreation in egyptian religious thought. families of three deities, with a father, mother, and child, represent the creation of new life and the succession of the father by the child, a pattern that connects divine families with royal succession. osiris, isis, and horus formed the quintessential family of this type. the pattern they set grew more widespread over time, so that many deities in local cult centers, like ptah, sekhmet, and their child nefertum at memphis and amun, mut, and khonsu at thebes, were assembled into family triads. genealogical connections like these are changeable, in keeping with the multiple perspectives in egyptian belief. hathor, as a fertility goddess, could act as mother to any child god, including the child form of the sun god, although in other circumstances she was the sun god's daughter. nine, the product of three and three, represents a multitude, so the egyptians called several large groups " enneads ", or sets of nine, even if they had more than nine members. the most prominent ennead was the ennead of heliopolis, an extended family of deities descended from the creator god atum, which incorporates many important gods. the term " ennead " was often extended to include all of egypt's deities. this divine assemblage had a vague and changeable hierarchy. gods with broad influence in the cosmos or who were mythologically older than others had higher positions in divine society. at the apex of this society was the king of the gods, who was usually identified with the creator deity. in different periods of egyptian history, different gods were most frequently said to hold this exalted position. horus was the most important god in the early dynastic period, ra rose to preeminence in the old kingdom, amun was supreme in the new, and in the ptolemaic and roman periods, isis was the divine queen and creator goddess. newly prominent gods tended to adopt characteristics from their predecessors. isis absorbed the traits of many other goddesses during her rise, and when amun became the ruler of the pantheon, he was conjoined with ra, the traditional king of the gods, to become a solar deity. in 1971, erik hornung published a study rebutting these views. he points out that in any given period many deities, even minor ones, were described as superior to all others. he also argues that the unspecified " god " in the wisdom texts is a generic term for whichever deity the reader chooses to revere. although the combinations, manifestations, and iconographies of each god were constantly shifting, they were always restricted to a finite number of forms, never becoming fully interchangeable in a monotheistic or pantheistic way. henotheism, hornung says, describes egyptian religion better than other labels. an egyptian could worship any deity at a particular time and credit it with supreme power in that moment, without denying the other gods or merging them all with the god that he or she focused on. hornung concludes that the gods were fully unified only in myth, at the time before creation, after which the multitude of gods emerged from a uniform nonexistence. egyptian writings describe the gods' bodies in detail. they are made of precious materials; their flesh is gold, their bones are silver, and their hair is lapis lazuli. they give off a scent that the egyptians likened to the incense used in rituals. some texts give precise descriptions of particular deities, including their height and eye color. yet these characteristics are not fixed; in myths, gods change their appearances to suit their own purposes. egyptian texts often refer to deities' true, underlying forms as " mysterious ". the egyptians' visual representations of their gods are therefore not literal. they symbolize specific aspects of each deity's character, functioning much like the ideograms in hieroglyphic writing. for this reason, the funerary god anubis is commonly shown in egyptian art as a dog or jackal, a creature whose scavenging habits threaten the preservation of buried mummies, in an effort to counter this threat and employ it for protection. his black coloring alludes to the color of mummified flesh and to the fertile black soil that egyptians saw as a symbol of resurrection. although the egyptians believed their gods to be present in the world around them, contact between the human and divine realms was mostly limited to specific circumstances. in literature, gods may appear to humans in a physical form, but in real life the egyptians were limited to more indirect means of communication. to insulate the sacred power in the sanctuary from the impurities of the outside world, the egyptians enclosed temple sanctuaries and greatly restricted access to them. people other than kings and high priests were thus denied contact with cult statues. the only exception was during festival processions, when the statue was carried out of the temple but still enclosed in a portable shrine. people did have less direct means of interaction. the more public parts of temples often incorporated small places for prayer, from doorways to freestanding chapels near the back of the temple building. communities also built and managed small chapels for their own use, and some families had shrines inside their homes. despite the gulf that separated humanity from the divine, the egyptians were surrounded by opportunities to approach their gods. egyptian gods were involved in human lives as well as in the overarching order of nature. this divine influence applied mainly to egypt, as foreign peoples were traditionally believed to be outside the divine order. but in the new kingdom, when other nations were under egyptian control, foreigners were said to be under the sun god's benign rule in the same way that egyptians were. humans had free will to ignore divine guidance and the behavior required by maat, but by doing so they could bring divine punishment upon themselves. a deity carried out this punishment using its ba, the force that manifested the god's power in the human world. natural disasters and human ailments were seen as the work of angry divine bas. conversely, the gods could cure righteous people of illness or even extend their lifespans. both these types of intervention were eventually represented by deities: shed, who emerged in the new kingdom to represent divine rescue from harm, and petbe, an apotropaic god from the late eras of egyptian history who was believed to avenge wrongdoing. egyptian texts take different views on whether the gods are responsible when humans suffer unjustly. misfortune was often seen as a product of isfet, the cosmic disorder that was the opposite of maat, and therefore the gods were not guilty of causing evil events. some deities who were closely connected with isfet, such as set, could be blamed for disorder within the world without placing guilt on the other gods. but some writings do accuse the deities of causing human misery, while others give theodicies in the gods' defense. beginning in the middle kingdom, several texts connected the issue of evil in the world with a myth in which the creator god fights a human rebellion against his rule and then withdraws from the earth. because of this human misbehavior, the creator is distant from his creation, allowing suffering to exist. new kingdom writings do not question the just nature of the gods as strongly as those of the middle kingdom. they emphasize humans' direct, personal relationships with deities and the gods' power to intervene in human events. people in this era put faith in specific gods who they hoped would help and protect them through their lives. as a result, upholding the ideals of maat grew less important than gaining the gods' favor as a way to guarantee a good life. even the pharaohs were regarded as dependent on divine aid, and after the new kingdom came to an end, government was increasingly influenced by oracles communicating the gods' will. official religious practices, which maintained maat for the benefit of all egypt, were related to, but distinct from, the religious practices of ordinary people, who sought the gods' help for their personal problems. temples and cults in egypt itself declined as the roman economy deteriorated in the third century ad, and beginning in the fourth century, christians suppressed the veneration of egyptian deities. the last formal cults, at philae, died out in the fifth or sixth century. most beliefs surrounding the gods themselves disappeared within a few hundred years, remaining in magical texts into the seventh and eighth centuries. but many of the practices involved in their worship, such as processions and oracles, were adapted to fit christian ideology and persisted as part of the coptic church. given the great changes and diverse influences in egyptian culture since that time, scholars disagree about whether any modern coptic practices are descended from those of pharaonic religion. but many festivals and other traditions of modern egyptians, both christian and muslim, resemble the worship of their ancestors' gods. south of heaven is the fourth studio album by american thrash metal band slayer. released on july 5, 1988, the album was the band's second collaboration with record producer rick rubin, whose production skills on slayer's previous album reign in blood had helped the band's sound evolve. south of heaven was slayer's second album to enter the billboard 200, and its last to be released by def jam recordings, although the album became an american recordings album after rick rubin ended his partnership with russell simmons. it was one of only two def jam titles to be distributed by geffen records through warner bros. records because of original distributor columbia records' refusal to release work by the band. the release peaked at number 57 and in 1992 was awarded a gold certification by the recording industry association of america. the title track and the song " mandatory suicide " have received various cover interpretations, particularly on slayer tribute albums. toni ferguson recorded string quartet adaptations of both tracks on the album the string quartet tribute to slayer: the evil you dread, with the former cover being described as having " menacing chord shifts " by allmusic's johnny loftus. private flying can be for both recreational purposes and personal transport, using aircraft that are owned individually, collectively as part of a syndicate, or rented from a flying club. a survey of pilots conducted between 2001 and 2002 indicated that the most common purposes of recreational flights were local flights near the base aerodrome, visits to other aerodromes, and day trips away. half of all flights landed at the same aerodrome they departed from, and only 9 per cent involved an overnight stay away from home. there were 27 fatal accidents involving ga aircraft in 2007, resulting in the loss of 48 lives. these compare with 16 accidents claiming a total of 19 lives the previous year, and although the 2007 statistics are higher than average, they are not exceptional. airspace is shared by cat, military and ga users. it is divided into controlled airspace, in which aircraft must always be under the control of an air traffic controller, and uncontrolled airspace, in which aircraft can operate autonomously. although ga flights can under certain conditions enter controlled airspace, they operate mainly outside of it. regional airports, such as edinburgh airport, have experienced strong growth in cat operations in recent years. these operations are commercially and operationally incompatible with ga, and although there is no evidence of deliberate discrimination, the effect has been to discourage or exclude it. ga aircraft are being subject to significant increases in charges, including the imposition of handling fees in some cases. some airports restrict or deny ga parking, and others limit or refuse certain ga activity. as a result, light ga aircraft are now rarely or never seen at large, busy international airports such as heathrow, stansted, gatwick and manchester. the planning system is critical to the viability and operation of ga aerodromes. with many cities lacking scheduled air transport services between them, and with ga access to commercial airports becoming increasingly difficult and expensive, a viable network of aerodromes supporting ga air transport operations is regarded as an important national issue. however, there is no unified national planning policy specific to ga aerodromes, and planning decisions relating to these are based on local issues that are not required to consider the national impact. because aircraft are excluded from noise control legislation, the only recourse for people affected by aircraft noise is through the planning process, and this issue is the principal factor on which the majority of planning decisions relating to ga land use are made. ga is a specialist subject often unfamiliar to local planning authorities, and most planning decisions relating to ga either refuse permission, or grant it with restrictive conditions. little gransden is just one example of a ga airfield required to comply with planning restrictions on the number of movements permitted, thereby inhibiting further development. such restrictions, if poorly conceived, can make ga operations unviable or even unsafe. a gold dollar had been proposed several times in the 1830s and 1840s, but was not initially adopted. congress was finally galvanized into action by the increased supply of bullion caused by the california gold rush, and in 1849 authorized a gold dollar. in its early years, silver coins were being hoarded or exported, and the gold dollar found a ready place in commerce. silver again circulated after congress in 1853 required that new coins of that metal be made lighter, and the gold dollar became a rarity in commerce even before federal coins vanished from circulation because of the economic disruption caused by the american civil war. the engraving was unusually minute and required very close and incessant labor for several weeks. i made the original dies and hubs for making the working dies twice over, to secure their perfect adaptation to the coining machinery. i had a wish to execute this work single handed, that i might thus silently reply to those who had questioned my ability for the work. the result, i believe, was satisfactory. the type 1 gold dollar depicts a head of liberty, facing left, with a coronet or tiara on her head bearing her name. her hair is gathered in a bun; she is surrounded by 13 stars representing the original states. the reverse features the date and denomination within a wreath, with the name of the nation near the rim. the reaction has been used in a number of notable total syntheses including the danishefsky taxol total synthesis, which produces the chemotherapeutic drug taxol, and the kuehne strychnine total synthesis which produces the pesticide strychnine. in addition to the reactions originally reported by johnson, corey, and chaykovsky, sulfur ylides have been used for a number of related homologation reactions that tend to be grouped under the same name. aggarwal has developed an alternative method employing the same sulfide as above and a novel alkylation involving a rhodium carbenoid formed in situ. the method too has limited substrate scope, failing for any electrophiles possessing basic substituents due to competitive consumption of the carbenoid. significantly, the treaty did not mention or institute any social reforms that madero had vaguely promised on previous occasions. it also left the porfirian state essentially intact. additionally, madero supported the unpopular idea that all land disputes were to be settled through the courts, staffed by the old judges, a decision that led to outbreaks of sporadic violence, particularly in rural areas. at roughly the same time, agrarian unrest in the state of morelos turned into a full blown rebellion under the leadership of the zapata brothers, emiliano and eufemio. the revolutionary forces were to be demobilized as soon as possible and the federal forces were to be the only army in mexico. this was in order to appease the army, which had opposed a compromise with madero. the feast of the goat received largely positive reviews, with several reviewers commenting on the book's depiction of the relationship between sexuality and power, and on the graphic descriptions of violent events. trujillo was officially dictator only from 1930 to 1938, and from 1942 to 1952, but remained in effective power throughout the entire period. though his regime was broadly nationalist, daniel chirot comments that he had " no particular ideology " and that his economic and social policies were basically progressive. the novel's narrative is divided into three distinct strands. one is centred on urania cabral, a fictional dominican character; another deals with the conspirators involved in trujillo's assassination; and the third focuses on trujillo himself. the novel alternates between these storylines, and also jumps back and forth from 1961 to 1996, with frequent flashbacks to periods earlier in trujillo's regime. in the novel's final chapters, the three storylines intersect with increasing frequency. the tone of these chapters is especially dark as they deal primarily with the horrific torture and death of the assassins at the hands of the sim, the failure of the coup, the rape of urania, and the concessions made to trujillo's most vicious supporters allowing them to enact their horrific revenge on the conspirators and then escape the country. the book ends as urania prepares to return home, determined this time to keep in touch with her family back on the island. the feast of the goat's major themes include political corruption, machismo, memory, and writing and power. olga lorenzo, reviewer for the melbourne age, suggests that overall vargas llosa's aim is to reveal the irrational forces of latin tradition that give rise to despotism. memory is also important in the sections of the novel that deal with the assassins. each recalls the events that led him to take part in the assassination of trujillo. these incidents included the 1956 galindez kidnapping and murder, the 1960 murder of the mirabal sisters, and the 1961 split with the catholic church. these historical events are used by vargas llosa to connect the assassins with specific moments that demonstrate the violence of trujillo's regime. trujillo, too, is shown reflecting on the past, not least his own formation and training at the hands of the us marines. but above all mario vargas llosa uses the fictional urania to facilitate the novel's attempt at remembering the regime. the novel opens and closes with urania's story, effectively framing the narrative in the terms of remembering the past and understanding its legacy in the present. in addition, because of her academic study of the history of the trujillo regime, urania is also confronting the memory of the regime for the country as a whole. this is in keeping with one purpose of the book, which is to ensure that the atrocities of the dictatorship and the dangers of absolute power will be remembered by a new generation. ruiz notes that writing also has the power to transform reality. it brings the reader back to the past, allowing the reader to comprehend myths or distorted stories told by historians. ruiz contends that knowing the past is crucial to one's understanding of the present that takes us to postmodernism, and argues that the feast of the goat can thus be seen as a postmodern discourse that gives power to history recreation. the realist style of the feast of the goat is recognized by some reviewers as being a break from a more allegorical approach to the dictator novel. the novel received largely positive reviews, most of which were willing to accept sacrifices of historical accuracy in favour of good storytelling. at age 11, fey read joe franklin's seventy years of great film comedians for a school project about comedy. she grew up watching second city television, and has cited catherine o'hara as a role model. after college, she worked as a receptionist during the day at the evanston ymca and took classes at second city at night. fey was an extra in a 1998 episode, and after watching herself, decided to diet and lost 30 pounds. she told the new york times, " i was a completely normal weight, but i was here in new york city, i had money and i couldn't buy any clothes. after i lost weight, there was interest in putting me on camera. " in 1999, mckay stepped down as head writer, which led michaels to approach fey for the position. she became snl's first female head writer that year. in 2001, fey and the rest of the writing staff won a writers guild of america award for snl's 25th anniversary special. the following year at the 2002 emmy awards ceremony, they won the emmy for outstanding writing for a variety, music or comedy program. in a 2004 interview, fey expressed that she would like to write and direct movies. in 2006, fey worked on a movie script for paramount pictures, which was to feature sacha baron cohen, by the name of curly oxide and vic thrill, based loosely on the true story of a hasidic rock musician. in 2007, she was cast in the animated comedy film aqua teen hunger force colon movie film for theaters as the aqua teens' mother, a giant burrito. in 1997, fey and other members of the second city provided voices for the pinball game medieval madness. on august 13, 2007, fey made a guest appearance in the sesame street episode " the bookaneers ". she appeared as a guest judge on the november 25, 2007 episode of the food network program iron chef america. fey has appeared as tinker bell in disney's campaign " year of a million dreams ". she has also done commercials for american express and garnier nutrisse. on april 5, 2011, fey's autobiography, bossypants, was released to a positive review from the new york times. in 2014, fey was recognized by elle magazine during the women in hollywood awards, honoring women for their outstanding achievements in film, spanning all aspects of the motion picture industry, including acting, directing, and producing. fey's charity work includes support of autism speaks, an organization that sponsors autism research. in april 2008, she participated in night of too many stars, a comedy benefit show for autism education. fey has a scar a few inches long on the left side of her chin and cheek, the cause of which remained unexplained to the public until a 2008 vanity fair profile by maureen dowd, and subsequently in her autobiographical book, where she revealed that " during the spring semester of kindergarten, i was slashed in the face by a stranger in the alley behind my house ". the rock cut architecture of the caves has been dated to between the 5th and 8th centuries, although the identity of the original builders is still a subject of debate. the caves are hewn from solid basalt rock. all the caves were also originally painted in the past, but now only traces remain. though the main cave was restored in the 1970s, other caves, including three consisting of important sculptures, are still badly damaged. the caves were designated a unesco world heritage site in 1987 as per the cultural criteria of unesco: the caves " represent a masterpiece of human creative genius " and " bear a unique or at least exceptional testimony to a cultural tradition or to a civilisation which is living or which has disappeared ". on the eastern part of the island, on the stupa hill, there is a small group of caves that house buddhist monuments. this hill is named after the religious stupa monument that they display. one of the two caves is incomplete, while the other contains a stupa made in brick. the main cave blends chalukyan architectural features such as massive figures of the divinities, guardians, and square pillars with custom capitals with gupta artistic characteristics, like the depiction of mountains and clouds and female hairstyles. a legend relates to both these panels. once, parvati was annoyed with shiva. at this moment, ravana, who was passing by mount kailash, found it as an obstruction to his movement. upset, ravana shook it vigorously and as a result, parvati got scared and hugged shiva. enraged by ravana's arrogance, shiva stamped down on ravana, who sang praises of shiva to free him of his misery and turned into an ardent devotee of shiva. another version states that shiva was pleased with ravana for restoring parvati's composure and blessed him. passing along the face of the eastern hill to the north of sitabai's cave is a small hindu excavation with a veranda, which was probably to be three cells, but was abandoned following the discovery of a flaw in the rock. towards the east of hill is a dry pond, with large artificial boulders and buddhist cisterns along its banks. at the end of the north spur of the main hill is a mound that resembles a buddhist stupa. after removing himself from the music industry, townsend cut his trademark hair off and gave up drinking and smoking. townsend found it " disconcerting " that he had difficulty writing music without drugs, and that he had trouble identifying his purpose as a musician. he spent a year producing albums in absence of writing, but found it unrewarding and decided to " pick up the guitar and just write ". this began a period of " self discovery " where he learned " how to create without drugs ". the second entry, a " commercial, yet heavy " album called addicted, was released in november 2009 and features lead vocals from townsend and dutch singer anneke van giersbergen. brian " beav " waddell was recruited from the devin townsend band to play bass. as of april 2016, devin is in the middle of recording the seventh dtp album, entitled transcendence at armoury studios in vancouver. townsend designed his two main projects, the aggressive strapping young lad and his more melodic solo material, as counterparts. strapping young lad's music was a diverse mix of extreme metal genres: death metal, thrash metal, black metal and industrial metal. townsend's solo material blends many genres and influences, with elements of atmospheric ambient music, hard rock and progressive rock, along with pop metal and arena rock. he described it as " a highly orchestrated type of expansive music based in hard rock and heavy metal. dense and produced with a large amount of ambient elements. " despite strapping young lad's greater mainstream acceptance, townsend identifies more with his solo material, and has never intended strapping young lad to be the focus of his music. since the 1980s, plans have been made to rebuild the synagogue in its original location. due to various political circumstances, very limited progress has been made. major disagreements exist between the government and jewish organizations as to how much the latter should be involved in decisions about the reconstruction project, including proposed design and character of the new building. construction began in 1866 and was completed the following year. the synagogue was officially consecrated on september 27, 1867, a ceremony attended by representatives of city and regional authorities, zagreb public figures, and many citizens. it was the first prominent public building in zagreb's lower town, and its architecture and scale aroused general admiration and praise. with the new synagogue, an organ was introduced into religious service. the small minority of orthodox jews found this change to be intolerable, and they began to hold their services separately, in rented rooms. in the 1880 earthquake, the synagogue suffered minor damage and was repaired the following year. further disagreements existed about the design and character of the new building. facsimile reconstruction, while feasible, was not seriously contemplated. there was a general agreement that the new building should also have a cultural as well as commercial purpose. while the jewish community of zagreb envisioned a modern design reminiscent of the original synagogue, the bet israel advocated building a replica of the original synagogue's facade, perceiving it as having a powerful symbolism. opinions of architects, urban planners, and art historians were also divided along similar lines. political activists have criticised fits and said that they feel the aim of fit deployment during protests is to prevent legal protests. journalists have also complained that fits attempt to stop them photographing protests and that they conduct surveillance of journalists. a campaign group, fitwatch, formed in 2007 that aim to obstruct fits and conduct sousveillance on the officers. two members of the group were arrested at the 2008 climate camp on obstruction charges. a similar police surveillance unit, the video intelligence unit is operated by greater manchester police. in june 2010, the home office announced it would review the use of fits during public order policing. in june 2010, the home office announced it would review the use of fits during public order policing. the move was influenced by the discovery that information collected by fits, included that which was unrelated to suspected crimes, for example recording who made speeches at demonstrations. three members of fitwatch were convicted for obstructing fit officers in june 2008 as they attempted to photograph those attending a no borders meeting in london. in july 2010 the inner london crown court overturned the men's convictions, with the judge stating that the protesters' human rights may have been violated by the fit officers. the case was first heard in the united states district court for the eastern district of pennsylvania, where, following oral arguments, the judge dismissed both trinsey's motion to remove wofford and the commonwealth's motion to dismiss. on june 10, 1991, however, the district court declared the statute unconstitutional, stating that it violated both the fourteenth and seventeenth amendments due to the failure to ensure " popular participation " through the use of primary elections. this decision was reached following an analysis of the legislative history of the seventeenth amendment and electoral processes; based on this analysis, the court concluded that the pennsylvanian use of a nomination process before a special election implied a right to vote, which was violated by the lack of a primary and necessitated a strict scrutinising of the legislation. after considering the evidence, the court concluded that " the interests the commonwealth put forth in support of the statute could not outweigh the infringement of the right to vote ", leading to the conclusion that the statute governing special elections was unconstitutional. jordan was recruited by numerous college basketball programs, including duke, north carolina, south carolina, syracuse, and virginia. in 1981, jordan accepted a basketball scholarship to north carolina, where he majored in cultural geography. many of jordan's contemporaries say that jordan is the greatest basketball player of all time. in 1999, an espn survey of journalists, athletes and other sports figures ranked jordan the greatest north american athlete of the 20th century, above such luminaries as babe ruth and muhammad ali. jordan placed second to babe ruth in the associated press's december 1999 list of 20th century athletes. in addition, the associated press voted him as the basketball player of the 20th century. jordan has also appeared on the front cover of sports illustrated a record 50 times. in the september 1996 issue of sport, which was the publication's 50th anniversary issue, jordan was named the greatest athlete of the past 50 years. jordan's private jet features a stripe in carolina blue, the " air jordan " logo on the tail, and references to his career in the identification number. polish culture during world war ii was suppressed by the occupying powers of nazi germany and the soviet union, both of whom were hostile to poland's people and cultural heritage. policies aimed at cultural genocide resulted in the deaths of thousands of scholars and artists, and the theft and destruction of innumerable cultural artifacts. the " maltreatment of the poles was one of many ways in which the nazi and soviet regimes had grown to resemble one another ", wrote british historian niall ferguson. the occupiers looted and destroyed much of poland's cultural and historical heritage, while persecuting and murdering members of the polish cultural elite. most polish schools were closed, and those that remained open saw their curricula altered significantly. the germans were especially active in the destruction of jewish culture in poland; nearly all of the wooden synagogues there were destroyed. moreover, the sale of jewish literature was banned throughout poland. educational and training programs place special emphasis on the world war ii period and on the occupation. events and individuals connected with the war are ubiquitous on tv, on radio and in the print media. the theme remains an important element in literature and learning, in film, theater and the fine arts. not to mention that politicians constantly make use of it. probably no other country marks anniversaries related to the events of world war ii so often or so solemnly. after germany's defeat in the war and the signing of the armistice in november 1918, markgraf and most of the capital ships of the high seas fleet were interned by the royal navy in scapa flow. the ships were disarmed and reduced to skeleton crews while the allied powers negotiated the final version of the treaty of versailles. on 21 june 1919, days before the treaty was signed, the commander of the interned fleet, rear admiral ludwig von reuter, ordered the fleet to be scuttled to ensure that the british would not be able to seize the ships. unlike most of the scuttled ships, markgraf was never raised for scrapping; the wreck is still sitting on the bottom of the bay. following her commissioning on 1 october 1914, markgraf conducted sea trials, which lasted until 12 december. by 10 january 1915, the ship had joined iii battle squadron of the high seas fleet with her three sister ships. on 22 january 1915, iii squadron was detached from the fleet to conduct maneuver, gunnery, and torpedo training in the baltic. the ships returned to the north sea on 11 february, too late to assist the i scouting group at the battle of dogger bank. archaeologists have established that the monument was built by pastoralist communities shortly after the introduction of agriculture to britain from continental europe. although representing part of an architectural tradition of long barrow building that was widespread across neolithic europe, the coldrum stones belong to a localised regional variant of barrows produced in the vicinity of the river medway, now known as the medway megaliths. of these, it is in the best surviving condition, and lies near to both addington long barrow and chestnuts long barrow on the western side of the river. three further surviving long barrows, kit's coty house, the little kit's coty house, and the coffin stone, are located on the medway's eastern side. they can be divided into two separate clusters: one to the west of the river medway and the other on blue bell hill to the east, with the distance between the two clusters measuring at between 8 and 10 km. the western group includes coldrum long barrow, addington long barrow, and the chestnuts long barrow. the eastern group consists of kit's coty house, little kit's coty house, the coffin stone, and several other stones which might have once been parts of chambered tombs. it is not known if they were all built at the same time, or whether they were constructed in succession, while similarly it is not known if they each served the same function or whether there was a hierarchy in their usage. the medway long barrows all conformed to the same general design plan, and are all aligned on an east to west axis. each had a stone chamber at the eastern end of the mound, and they each probably had a stone facade flanking the entrance. the chambers were constructed from sarsen, a dense, hard, and durable stone that occurs naturally throughout kent, having formed out of silicified sand from the eocene. early neolithic builders would have selected blocks from the local area, and then transported them to the site of the monument to be erected. it is possible that there was a facade in front of the chamber, as is evident at other chambered tombs in britain, such as west kennet long barrow and wayland's smithy. it is also possible that there was a portal stone atop the chamber, as was apparent at kit's coty house and lower kit's coty house. many of the larger slabs of stone that have fallen down the slope on the eastern end of the monument may have been parts of this facade or portal. keith had suggested that the crania he examined displayed similar features, which he attributed to the different individuals belonging to " one family - or several families united by common descent. " similar observations had been made regarding the crania from other long barrows in britain, although osteoarchaeologists martin smith and megan brickley noted that this was not necessarily representative of a family group. instead, they stated that it would also be consistent with " a population that was still relatively small and scattered ", in which most individuals were interrelated. the inclusion of occupational debris over the bones was not unique to the site but common in chambered tombs from southern england. on the basis of an example discovered at kit's coty house, ashbee thought it apparent that the contents of the coldrum's chamber would have been compartmentalised by medial slabs, which served the same purpose as the side chambers of west kennet and wayland's smithy. all of the surviving megalithic tombs from the early neolithic period have suffered from neglect and the ravages of agriculture. although archaeologist paul ashbee noted that the coldrum stones represent " kent's least damaged megalithic long barrow ", it too has suffered considerable damage, having become dilapidated and fallen apart over the six millennia since its original construction. most prominently, the eastern side has largely collapsed, with the stones that once helped to hold up the side of the barrow having fallen to the bottom of the slope. conversely, it is possible that the sarsens at the bottom of the slope were not part of the original monument, but were stones found in nearby fields which were deposited there by farmers. in 1987, the song won best single at the brit awards, and best international hit at the ivor novello awards. in 2005, 20 years after its release, the song was awarded song of the decade between the years 1985 and 1994 by the british academy of composers and songwriters. in 2015 the song was voted by the british public as the nation's 12th favourite 1980s number one in a poll for itv. in 1983, neil tennant met producer bobby orlando, while on an assignment in new york interviewing sting for smash hits. after listening to some demos, orlando offered to produce for the duo. " west end girls " is a synthpop song influenced by hip hop music. the song's socially conscious streak, as well as the propulsive bass line, derives from grandmaster flash's protest rap song " the message ". lowe and hague created a " snaky, obsessive rhythm punch " for the music, replacing the song's previously sparse beats and minimal keyboard lines. " west end girls " has been generally well received by music critics. stephen thomas erlewine from allmusic in a review of the album please called the song " hypnotic ", adding that " it's not only a classic dance single, it's a classic pop single ". in a review for the group's second studio album actually, rob hoerburger from rolling stone magazine commented that " west end girls " was " as catchy as anything on the radio in 1986 ", praising " its enticing bass line and foreboding synth riffs ", but felt that it was almost " nullified by peevish spoken asides and the cryptic posturing of the duo's lyrics ". in a review of the live album concrete, michael hubbard from musicomh said that " west end girls " was one of the songs that " round out a collection that never feels too long or superfluous ", adding that it " goes some way to installing tennant and lowe as national treasures ". nitsuh abebe from pitchfork media, in a review of their compilation album popart: pet shop boys - the hits commented that in the song " we meet tennant not as a singer, but as a speaker ", adding that " he mumbles the verses to us not like a star, but like a stranger in a raincoat, slinking alongside you and pointing out the sights ". in 1993 east 17 covered " west end girls " for their album walthamstow, with limited chart success. all tracks were produced by greg kurstin, with vocal production on " every christmas " made by jason halbert. tracks from the concert dvd were filmed from the television special kelly clarkson's cautionary christmas music tale. the two thieves thwart the dacoits sent by gabbar to extort the villagers. soon afterwards, gabbar and his goons attack ramgarh during the festival of holi. in a tough battle, veeru and jai are cornered. thakur, although he has a gun within his reach, does not help them. veeru and jai fight back and the bandits flee. the two are, however, upset at thakur's inaction, and consider leaving the village. thakur explains that gabbar had killed nearly all of his family members, and cut off both his arms a few years earlier, which is why he could not use the gun. he had concealed the dismemberment by always wearing a shawl. scholars have noted several themes in the film, such as glorification of violence, conformation to feudal ethos, debate between social order and mobilised usurpers, homosocial bonding, and the film's role as a national allegory. on 12 june 2006, with his contract expired, stansfield decided to remain in the conference, joining exeter city. he told local radio that his aim was not to achieve promotion or reach a certain tally of goals, but to influence the club's younger players. stansfield suffered from persistent abdominal pain in the early part of 2010, and was admitted to hospital for tests at the end of march. on 8 april 2010, exeter city confirmed to the media that he had been diagnosed with a form of colorectal cancer. manager paul tisdale told local news programme bbc spotlight that " there's little good on this subject ", but " if there's someone who can deal with it and meet it head on with real purpose, adam's the man. stansfield continues to be remembered by fans of exeter. on 9 august 2014, as they started the new season against portsmouth, a giant flag resembling his club shirt was displayed by the crowd. exeter city and yeovil town agreed that on their meeting at st james park on 8 august 2015, there would be a minute's applause in the seventh minute and ninth, for the numbers he wore at each club. earlier the same day, there was also a match between the two clubs' supporters in topsham, devon, to raise funds for his foundation. saprang started his military career in 1969 as rifle platoon leader in the 3rd infantry battalion, 4th regimental combat team. he claims to have fought 200 battles during the course of his military career. in april 1997, saprang was shortly transferred to the ministry of defense as a staff officer, before being promoted in october 1997 to commanding general of the 15th infantry division, at the time stationed in pran buri, prachuap khiri khan province. in 2003, he was promoted to 3rd corps commander. in 2004, it was strongly rumored that saprang might be promoted to command the 4th army, replacing general pongsak ekbannasingh. general pongsak had been criticized for ineffectually fighting the south thailand insurgency, after 39 successful arson attacks occurred in just one night. pongsak ended up being replaced in april 2004 by pisarn wattanawongkhiri. a week after the coup, saprang was promoted to assistant army commander, alongside fellow coup leader anupong paochinda. his predecessor, general pornchai kranlert, had not taken part in the coup and was transferred to an inactive position. saprang was also promoted from lieutenant general to general. saprang noted in an interview that, " if telecommunication businesses are in private hands, the country won't be safe. " the junta had earlier announced plans to cancel the initial public offering of both tot and cat telecom and to merge the two state enterprises. a week after saprang hinted at a reshuffle of aot top management, aot president chotisak asapaviriya was forced to resign, citing health reasons, while the directors of suvarnabhumi airport and aot commercial operations were dismissed. police commissioner general seripisut temiyavej was appointed as an aot director. as aot chairman, saprang spearheaded an effort to reopen don muang airport in parallel with the newly opened suvarnabhumi airport, despite objections from the civil aviation department, airlines, and internal studies within airports of thailand. 60 airlines threatened to halt flights to thailand if they were forced to move back to don muang airport. the aot board also granted 200 million baht to the army, which had requested a financial donation. aot also lent some of its explosives detectors to the army for use in the south thailand insurrection. saprang had a public confrontation with former prime minister chavalit yongchaiyudh regarding the 2006 bangkok new year's eve bombings after chavalit accused him of incompetence. saprang claimed that " the evidence and intelligence information proves that the bombs were the dirty work of politicians who lost power and benefits. bad soldiers loyal to bad politicians collaborated with them with the intention to topple this government. " however, his claim was contradicted just an hour later by prime minister surayud chulanont. in may 2007, saprang claimed that he had information regarding the seizure of instructional manual on terrorism in bangkok from a london apartment by english soldiers and police. he said he could not disclose any further information, but told the public to connect the dots themselves. days later, a bomb exploded outside of chitrlada palace. saprang later clarified his remark, saying the bangkok terrorism manual discovery had been made in the early 1990s. deputy chief of the british mission in bangkok andy pierce said he was " concerned " by saprang's remarks, which he insisted were " baseless ". taking his abilities on the road, ali met an italian man in cairo who signed him to a contract for music hall performances. ali performed under contract throughout europe and at times for heads of state. according to ali, in or about 1914 he was summoned by tsar nicholas ii of russia to perform at the winter palace in saint petersburg, russia. he stated that the tsar " must have liked my performance because he awarded me a special decoration, which is now one of my most treasured possessions. " following world war i, ali began managing his own affairs and toured the world, learning more tricks as he went. ali's longstanding finale was the swallowing of copious amounts of water again, but this time followed by a pint of kerosene. a prop was then produced, typically a model castle or house made of metal set on a table, within which a small flame burned. lighter than water and immiscible with it, the kerosene floated above the liquid in ali's gut, allowing him to disgorge it first. the stage thus set, and to a drum roll or an imitation of fire bells, ali became a " human flamethrower ", spewing the accelerant in a long stream over the sacrificial prop, setting it ablaze. once the kerosene was exhausted, the water followed, streaming out his mouth in a long flow from up to six feet away, extinguishing the fire. news of the encounter was conveyed back to france, but the country was at this time in one of the most turbulent eras of the ongoing revolution and little notice was taken of events in india. historian william james notes that under normal political circumstances the action would have had more significant ramifications, while edward pelham brenton claims that the french deliberately ignored the report out of fear of antagonising britain. in britain, the admiralty approved of cornwallis' actions, suggesting that the french were deliberately using the guise of trade to support mysore against britain. the action had no effect on the ongoing war in india, which was now centred on the inland city of seringapatam. as british forces closed on the city in february 1792, the tipu sultan initiated peace talks which brought the war to an end in exchange for concessions to the company and its indian allies. the album was first released in japan on 7 june 2006 through universal music group before being released two days later in germany. in the united kingdom loose was released on 12 june 2006 via geffen records and was released eight days later on 20 june 2006 in canada and the united states. york retained the previous season's home and away kits. the home kit comprised red shirts with white sleeves, light blue shorts and white socks. the away kit included light blue shirts with white sleeves, white shorts and light blue socks. benenden health continued as shirt sponsors for the second successive season. league positions are sourced by statto, while the remaining information is referenced individually. brackets around club names denote the player's contract with that club had expired before he joined york. players listed with no appearances have been in the matchday squad but only as unused substitutes. for some time, china has been the largest producer of antimony and its compounds, with most production coming from the xikuangshan mine in hunan. the industrial methods to produce antimony are roasting and reduction using carbon or direct reduction of stibnite with iron. the roman scholar pliny the elder described several ways of preparing antimony sulfide for medical purposes in his treatise natural history. pliny the elder also made a distinction between " male " and " female " forms of antimony; the male form is probably the sulfide, while the female form, which is superior, heavier, and less friable, has been suspected to be native metallic antimony. the roman naturalist pedanius dioscorides mentioned that antimony sulfide could be roasted by heating by a current of air. it is thought that this produced metallic antimony. the metal antimony was known to german chemist andreas libavius in 1615 who obtained it by adding iron to a molten mixture of antimony sulfide, salt and potassium tartrate. this procedure produced antimony with a crystalline or starred surface. with the advent of challenges to phlogiston theory it was recognized that antimony is an element forming sulfides, oxides, and other compounds, as is the case with other metals. the ancient words for antimony mostly have, as their chief meaning, kohl, the sulfide of antimony. also, antimony was identified as one of 12 critical raw materials for the eu in a report published in 2011, primarily due to the lack of supply outside china. reported production of antimony in china fell in 2010 and is unlikely to increase in the coming years, according to the roskill report. no significant antimony deposits in china have been developed for about ten years, and the remaining economic reserves are being rapidly depleted. according to statistics from the usgs, current global reserves of antimony will be depleted in 13 years. however, the usgs expects more resources will be found. antimony also is used in the making of bullets and bullet tracers. this element is also used in paint and glass art crafts and as opacifier in enamel. wheeler is recognised as one of the most important british archaeologists of the twentieth century, responsible for successfully encouraging british public interest in the discipline and advancing methodologies of excavation and recording. further, he is widely acclaimed as a major figure in the establishment of south asian archaeology. however, many of his specific interpretations of archaeological sites have been discredited or reinterpreted, and he was often criticised for bullying colleagues and sexually harassing young women. in 1899, wheeler joined bradford grammar school shortly before his ninth birthday, where he proceeded straight to the second form. in 1902 robert and emily had a second daughter, whom they named betty; mortimer showed little interest in this younger sister. in 1905, robert agreed to take over as head of the london office of his newspaper, by then renamed the yorkshire daily observer, and so the family relocated to the southeast of the city in december, settling into a house named carlton lodge on south croydon road, west dulwich. in 1908 they moved to 14 rollescourt avenue in nearby herne hill. rather than being sent for a conventional education, when he was 15 wheeler was instructed to educate himself by spending time in london, where he frequented the national gallery and the victoria and albert museum. in october 1917 wheeler was posted to the 76th army field artillery brigade, one of the royal field artillery brigades under the direct control of the general officer commanding, third army. the brigade was then stationed in belgium, where it had been engaged in the battle of passchendaele against german troops along the western front. there, he was immediately placed in command of an artillery battery, replacing a major who had been poisoned by mustard gas. being promoted to the rank of acting major, he was part of the left group of artillery covering the advancing allied infantry in the battle. throughout, he maintained correspondences with his wife, his sister amy, and his parents. after the allied victory in the battle, the brigade was transferred to italy. soon after joining the museum, wheeler was elected to the council of the society of antiquaries. through the society, he became involved in the debate as to who should finance archaeological supervision of building projects in greater london; his argument was that the city of london corporation should provide the funding, although in 1926 it was agreed that the society itself would employ a director of excavation based in lancaster house to take on the position. also involved in the largely moribund royal archaeological institute, wheeler organised its relocation to lancaster house. in 1927, wheeler took on an unpaid lectureship at university college london, where he established a graduate diploma course on archaeology; one of the first to enroll was stuart piggott. in 1928, wheeler curated an exhibit at ucl on " recent work in british archaeology ", for which he attracted much press attention. turning his attention to southern india, wheeler discovered remnants of a roman amphora in a museum, and began excavations at arikamedu, revealing a port from the first century ce which had traded in goods from the roman empire. the excavation had been plagued by severe rains and tropical heat, although it was during the excavation that world war ii ended; in celebration, wheeler gave all his workers an extra rupee for the day. it has since been alleged that while wheeler took credit for discovering the significance of this site, it had previously been established by a. aiyappan, the superintendent of the government museum in madras, and the french archaeologist jouveau dubreuil, with wheeler intentionally ignoring their contribution. he later undertook excavations of six megalithic tombs in brahmagiri, mysore, which enabled him to gain a chronology for the archaeology of much of southern india. as their relationship had become increasingly strained, his wife had left and returned to britain. although hoping to leave his post in india several months early, he was concerned for his economic prospects, and desperately searched for a new job position. through friends in the british archaeological community, he was offered a job as the secretary of the royal commission on ancient monuments for wales, although he was upset that this would mean a drop in his professional status and income and decided to turn it down. instead, he agreed to take up a chair in the archaeology of the roman provinces at the institute of archaeology. in addition, the pakistani minister of education invited him to become the archaeological adviser to the pakistani government; he agreed to also take up this position, on the condition that he would only spend several months in the country each year over the next three. the species has a cosmopolitan distribution except for arctic, alpine and cold temperate regions; it is common in temperate and tropical regions of the world. it has been collected in africa, asia, australia, europe, north america, and south america. this earthstar has been used in traditional chinese medicine as a hemostatic agent; the spore dust is applied externally to stop wound bleeding and reduce chilblains. two indian forest tribes, the baiga and the bharia of madhya pradesh, have been reported to use the fruit bodies medicinally. the spore mass is blended with mustard seed oil, and used as a salve against burns. the blackfoot of north america called the fungus " fallen stars ", considering them to be stars fallen to the earth during supernatural events. anderson has been nominated for six academy awards over the course of his career, while his films have earned a further fourteen academy award nominations for cast and crew. in december 2009, anderson was working on a new script tentatively titled the master, about a " charismatic intellectual " who starts a new religion in the 1950s. an associate of anderson stated that the idea for the film had been in anderson's head for about twelve years. though the film makes no reference to the movement, it has " long been widely assumed to be based on scientology. " the master was released on september 14, 2012 by the weinstein company in the united states and canada to critical acclaim. the film received three nominations at the 85th academy awards: joaquin phoenix for best leading actor, philip seymour hoffman for best supporting actor and amy adams for best supporting actress. the wolf is likened to a wicked man who oppresses others. the fox is likened to the devil. the farmer is likened to the godly man, with whom the fiend finds fault. the woods where the wolf was cheated are corrupting goods that man longs to get. the cheese represents covetousness; the well that contains it is fraud and fantasy, which draws men downwards into hell. nathan graduated from pine bush high school in pine bush, new york in 1992, where he played basketball and baseball and ran track. only division iii colleges showed minimal interest in him, and he ended up at stony brook university largely because his high school assistant coach jeff masionet and stony brook baseball coach matt senk knew each other as former teammates in the state university of new york at cortland baseball program. on march 9, 2010, it was reported that nathan had a tear in his ulnar collateral ligament. on march 21, after attempting to pitch without having surgery, nathan decided to undergo tommy john surgery, missing the entire 2010 season. abc chairman jim spigelman has strongly criticised the federal government's proposed anti-discrimination law, saying it poses risks to freedom of speech. mr spigelman, former new south wales chief justice, said there was no justification for including the notion of ''offending'' in the definition of discrimination. the legislation consolidates several anti-discrimination laws, including that on racial discrimination, which refers to treatment that offends. the proposed law extends ''offending'' into the definition of discrimination for all purposes. delivering an oration on human rights day, mr spigelman pointed out that none of the other existing commonwealth acts - covering sex, disability and age discrimination - included conduct that only offended. the freedom to offend was an integral component of freedom of speech. ''there is no right not to be offended. i am not aware of any international human rights instrument, or national anti-discrimination statute in another liberal democracy, that extends to conduct which is merely offensive,'' he said. for the capital's three-part series, education reporter cindy huang examined teacher experience levels across 12 public high schools provided by a 2016 database of school employees, their salaries, years of experience and obtained through a public information request. also examined was data of classroom teachers, including department chairs to determine how many teachers at each high school began the year with three years or less of experience. the school system provided the turnover rates for teachers. the data includes all employees in the unit i employee union, which is represented by the teachers association of anne arundel county. among those interviewed over four months; teachers and former teachers at once designated "challenge schools"; superintendent george arlotto; speaker of the maryland house michael e. busch; parents, students and union leaders; and national education researchers. during his panel at fan expo canada, aquaman star jason momoa answered a number of questions about his forthcoming role. he couldn't say much, which is no surprise, but he did address some very broad-brush things like whether the character will be as dark as superman and batman seem to be, and what he has to say to fans who make "fish jokes" about the character. "it's cute and funny, people make fun of him, there's a bunch of jokes about him, but i'm like, 'just wait. let's just wait a little bit, and then you can make jokes,'" momoa said. you can see a supercut of momoa answering aquaman inquiries below. momoa is expected to appear in march's batman v superman: dawn of justice, followed by two justice league movies and an aquaman stand-alone film. check out our comic book movie release calendar for more details on just when those are coming. donald trump could transform his tens of millions of political followers into a ready-made audience for a new anti-establishment television network called trump tv if he loses the presidential election. according to reports his son-in-law and close adviser jared kushner, who owns the new york observer, made an initial informal approach to financiers. as mr trump trailed hillary clinton by up to 11 percentage points in polls the question of what he would do if he loses has only been addressed briefly by the billionaire himself. mr trump recently said he would like to "take a long vacation". but analysts have suggested his next venture could potentially be one of his most influential and lucrative. a trump tv network would allow him to maintain a major public profile, push his political agenda, and continue to attack the political and media establishment. we are thankful that the prayers for discovery made by everyone during this time have been answered. it is with deep sadness that we must let you all know that david's body was discovered on june 20 near ambleside park. we would like to take this opportunity to thank everyone for their prayers, support and compassion. david was an exceptional, bright, caring and loving young man. we consider ourselves blessed to have had him in our lives, and are comforted knowing that he is now embraced in the arms of our lord. dreger, 28, was reported missing in late may after last being seen on may 26 in his hometown of vancouver. his bike and helmet were found the day after in stanley park, and he left his wallet, computer and phone at home, as well as closing his twitter and xbox live accounts. the cause of his death hasn't been released yet. pittsburgh -- jordan staal wanted a family reunion, and the pittsburgh penguins obliged. the penguins traded the talented center to the carolina hurricanes for two players and carolina's first-round pick in the nhl draft that was held in pittsburgh on friday night. the 23-year-old staal helped the penguins win the stanley cup in 2009, but reportedly balked at signing a contract extension. staal has one season left on his current four-year deal. rather than continue negotiating, the penguins shipped him to the hurricanes, where staal will join brother eric staal. carolina also has jared staal -- currently playing in the american hockey league. pittsburgh received center brandon sutter and defenseman brian dumoulin in the deal as well as carolina's eighth-overall pick in the draft, which the penguins used to select defenseman derrick pouliot. on a day when speculation about the future of columbus star rick nash abounded, it was the penguins who provided the draft with a jolt by sending the popular staal packing. nhl commissioner gary bettman hinted at the impact moments before announcing the trade. penguins general manager ray shero thanked staal for his contributions to the franchise before taking pouliot as the capacity crowd at consol energy center roared its approval. the move is a stunning end to a hugely successful run in pittsburgh for staal, the team's sixth pick in the 2006 draft who is getting married this weekend with most of his former penguins teammates expected to attend. historian james holland tells the story of the battle for the tiny mediterranean island of malta, one of the most vicious and violent episodes of the second world war. historian james holland presents a fresh analysis of the world war two battle for the tiny mediterranean island of malta. the battle for malta is one of the most vicious and violent episodes of the second world war. the tiny mediterranean island is smaller than the isle of wight, yet between 1940 and 1942 more bombs fell on malta than fell on britain during the entire blitz. as axis forces threw all they had at the island, those on malta were forced to endure a sustained attack from the air and a rapidly deteriorating condition on the ground. beyond any form of austerity that we might understand, little malta was close to starving. the struggle of the maltese people against oppression was recognised personally by king george vi, who awarded the george cross to the entire island. yet the siege of malta is only half of the story. in this documentary, holland argues that the real importance of malta's position was its offensive role, which has been largely undervalued. caught in the crosshairs of a massive struggle between britain and germany to control the shipping waters of the mediterranean, by 1942 malta had become the most bombed place on earth. whilst the level of brutal attacks may seem out of all proportion to the islands size it actually only serves to underline its importance - for malta held the key to the entire war in the mediterranean and north africa. australians are seen as nothing like the caring, friendly and hospitable mob so often assumed, with an extensive new survey of recent migrants reporting high levels of ethnic or religious discrimination. as the abbott government prepares to strike down part of the racial discrimination law, the monash university study has found many migrants regularly fear walking alone at night or becoming a victim of crime. the survey, to be released on monday, is the latest in a series ''mapping social cohesion'' funded by the scanlon foundation and the federal government, and the first to allow researchers to compare the experience of recent migrants to the wider australian population. it shows migrants settling over the past two decades often feel singled out because of their skin colour or faith - and report a disturbing lack of trust, both in other people and political institutions compared to the rest of the population. the neighbors' dog will not stop barking. he is barking the same high, rhythmic bark that he barks every time they leave the house. they must switch him on on their way out. the neighbors' dog will not stop barking. i close all the windows in the house and put on a beethoven symphony full blast but i can still hear him muffled under the music, barking, barking, barking, and now i can see him sitting in the orchestra, his head raised confidently as if beethoven had included a part for barking dog. when the record finally ends he is still barking, sitting there in the oboe section barking, his eyes fixed on the conductor who is entreating him with his baton while the other musicians listen in respectful silence to the famous barking dog solo, that endless coda that first established beethoven as an innovative genius. rick ross was on power 105's breakfast club show recently, where he talked about his upcoming album, black market, which drops tomorrow. aside from the talk about the album, rozay discussed his new song, "color money," and the few lines on the track where it sounded like he was taking shots at drake and birdman. ross didn't deny the shots on the record, and said at the end of the day he's going to stick up for mmg and that it is what it is. during his last appearance on the show, ross said that the issues between meek mill and drake wasn't a real beef and he could see them doing a song together eventually again. while ross danced around a few of the questions, he did straight up say that he currently doesn't have a relationship with birdman, and that he's sticking with lil wayne through his turbulent label situation with cash money. "for me to see the way things have transpired, i can't respect that, and i don't respect that," ross said. though he admitted he thought about it, ross also said that he never openly talked with wayne about trying to get him onto his mmg label. weezy is currently suing birdman and cash money over money owed to him. post continues below though rozay has yet to drop his song "ghostwriter" from the album, he did talk about it during the interview, as well as the topic of ghostwriting in rap. "i think making dope music is what's fine, chasing line for line that ain't cool at all," ross said. rozay, who said he's ghostwritten for artists in the past, did say that if an artist has a whole body of work put together by someone else it becomes an issue. ross' black market album is currently available to pre-order on itunes here. the huskies were 9-19 in his first season, but that would be his only losing season at uconn. the huskies surged to the nit title in 1988, and two years later reached the ncaa elite eight on tate george's miracle shot against clemson. that 1989-90 season is still known as the dream season, but under calhoun much bigger dreams were to be realized. uconn knocked on the door to the final four several more times, and finally made it in 1999, beating duke for the national title. the huskies went on to win two more, in 2004 and 2011, with walker leading a miracle run of 11 wins in a row in the big east and ncaa tournaments. by then, uconn men's basketball had come to dominate the sports conversation in connecticut year-round, and drew coverage from national media outlets on a nearly day-to-day basis. play your own songs to three different game modes on, newly updated to, eight different maps, or fight the three unlockable bosses! play on four different difficulties to get a range of challenge or create your own with the new custom difficulty! keep track of your stats and compare them to your friends! earn all the achievements by playing and getting better at it! play more songs on harder difficulties to rank up faster! it is easy to grasp but hard to master! play any song you want by just dragging them into a folder! the game reads mp3s, oggs, and wavs!play "follow" to follow a line that fluctuates with the song while dodging objects spawning with the beat of the song!play the classic mode "dodge" and dodge obstacles that spawn with the beat of the song!play "fight" to follow the line and kill waves of enemies that spawn with the beat of the song! twelve armed north korean soldiers apparently defected across the border to china's jilin province earlier this month but were captured by chinese troops and sent back to the north. late last month, two north korean soldiers shot and killed their senior officer and fled to jilin province, prompting experts to suspect something unusual is going on in army units stationed along the border with china. the 12 north korean soldiers stationed with a border unit defected across the chinese border in two groups but were sent back after being captured by chinese troops, a diplomatic source in beijing said thursday. another source in the chinese town of yanji near the border with north korea, said the other two north korean soldiers shot and killed their senior officer and crossed over the border into changbai, jilin province, causing chinese troops nearby to scramble into emergency mode. the chick evans caddie scholarship is a full tuition and housing college scholarship for golf caddies that is renewable for up to four years. each year, more than 960 deserving caddies across the country attend college on a four-year scholarship from the evans scholars foundation. selected applicants must have a strong caddie record, excellent grades, outstanding character and demonstrated financial need. read more about the scholarship requirements. since 1930, when the first two evans scholars enrolled at northwestern university, more than 10,830 outstanding young men and women have been awarded evans scholarships. most recipients attend one of the 16 universities across the nation where the evans scholars foundation operates a scholarship house. chapter living at the evans scholarship houses, students live and work together cooperatively. each chapter elects its own officers, runs social and service activities and participates in campus programs. the evans scholars chapters have earned a reputation on each campus for scholastic achievement and excellence in community service. living and working together provides evans scholars an opportunity to develop leadership capabilities and strong communication skills. we believe that the sense of empowerment fostered through chapter living is largely responsible for the tremendous success of our 16 evans scholarship chapters. when you compare our scholarship houses with other campus organizations, they rank at or near the top in academics and community service. there are also evans scholars at five additional universities, where they live together in a designated residence hall. columbus, ohio - new ohio house legislation would allow concealed handguns to be taken into churches, day-care centers, aircraft, state buildings, airports outside security checkpoints, and publicly accessible areas of police stations. house bill 48, introduced this week by state rep. ron maag, is similar to a gun bill the warren county republican unsuccessfully pushed last session. the legislation would further allow conceal-carry permit holders to take handguns into school safety zones if the firearms are left in the car. current law only allows people to carry concealed handguns in school zones when they are immediately picking up or dropping off a child. public and private universities and colleges would also be given the choice of allowing concealed handguns on campus, under the bill. schools that allowed hidden guns would be granted legal immunity for any injuries or deaths that occur as a result. even though the gop controls a historic 65-seat majority in the ohio house, the bill's fate is unclear. hb 48 has 10 co-sponsors so far -- all republicans, though several of them are first-term lawmakers without much clout. a majority of americans disapprove of the way president trump is handling healthcare, according to a new survey. a cbs news poll finds just 32 percent of respondents approve of the way trump is dealing with the issue of healthcare, compared to 59 percent who disapprove. the poll also finds that 45 percent of respondents disapprove of trump's handling of the economy and 57 percent disapprove of trump's handling of immigration. advertisement overall, 69 percent of americans have a good view about the condition of the economy, compared to just 30 percent who have a poor view of it. trump also has a negative job approval rating, according to the poll. just 36 percent of respondents approve of the job the president is doing, compared to 58 percent who disapprove. the poll comes after the gop's push to repeal and replace obamacare collapsed in the senate last month. now, some lawmakers are pushing for republicans to continue their healthcare push while others are arguing the gop should move on to other agenda items, such as tax reform. the poll was conducted from august 3 to 6 among 1,111 adults. the margin of error is 4 percentage points. breakfast in bed and a homemade card are nice. but for lots of mums the best gift on mother's day is a cuddle and a kiss. red panda eilish is sure to get plenty of those from her baby twins, who made their public debut at the national zoo and aquarium in canberra on thursday morning. the yet-to-be-named pair let no one down on the cute factor, but like any young twins, organising them for a photo proved a challenge. the male cub stayed elusive up in the trees, while his less shy sister joined mum eilish down on the ground for photos and a nose rub. the zoo is part of an international red panda breeding program and the latest pair continue a track record of success for canberra. the cubs are typically born in a den over summer and emerge in autumn with thick coats ready for the winter. natives of the eastern himalayas and south-western china, they are well prepared for canberra's chilly winter, which will be their most active time of the year. while a lot smaller than their cousins the giant panda, red pandas have a similar appetite for bamboo. rome: over 400 migrants were believed to have drowned in the mediterranean on monday after four boats capsized and another began to sink, according to reports. bbc arabic cited egyptian reports as saying over 400 mainly somali migrants had drowned when four boats capsized after leaving egypt. the migrants had set sail from egypt on thursday and were heading for italy, according to reports circulating on social media. italian president sergio mattarella said there had been a "migrant tragedy". speaking at a prize giving ceremony in rome, mattarella said europe needed to reflect in the face of "yet another tragedy in the mediterranean in which, it seems, several hundred people have died". he did not give any further details. survivors were taken to a greek island, according to the unconfirmed reports. the italian coast guard said they knew nothing about the reported disaster. however, they were involved in the rescue of 108 migrants from a semi-submerged rubber dinghy off the coast of libya on monday. six people died in the incident, according to the organisation sos mediterranee. the boat had been drifting for nine hours in choppy seas, was partially deflated, taking on water and its engine was broken, sos mediterranee said. they were citizens of several african countries including gambia, guinea bissau, nigeria and ethiopia, sos mediterranee said. around 800 migrants and refugees drowned in april last year when the overcrowded fishing boat they were in capsized in waters between libya and the italian island of lampedusa. numerous studies have shown the promising antibacterial effects of melaleuca alternifolia, or tea tree essential oil. the study detailed here replicates in humans a 2004 in vitro study that used a dressing model over petri dishes to determine the antimicrobial effects of the fumes of tea tree essential oil. the current study used the same dressing model with patients who had wounds infected with staphylococcus aureus. ten participants volunteered for the quasi-experimental study, and four of the 10 were used as matched participants to compare wound healing times between conventional treatment alone and conventional treatment plus fumes of tea tree essential oil. the results demonstrated decreased healing time in all but one of the participants treated with tea tree oil. the differences between the matched participants were striking. the results of this small investigational study indicate that additional study is warranted. liverpool prospect rhian brewster trained with the first team at melwood today as he ended another successful week in his development. the 17-year-old prospect was the star man for liverpool u23s on monday as they came from behind for a 3-1 away win at leicester. brewster grabbed the equaliser before claiming two assists for matty virtue and harry wilson as mick garrity's men consolidated their third place in the premier league 2 table. brewster only made his first start for the u18s earlier this year but has made rapid progress. the departure of brooks lennon on loan back to america has freed up a regular role with the u23s and the youngster is steadily making an impact at the higher level. he has continued to impress for england all season as well while he was able to fire in a hat-trick at melwood in a behind closed doors first-team friendly with accrington stanley. kuala lumpur: the missing malaysia airlines plane flew for one hour and 10 minutes after malaysian aviation authorities saw it vanish from radar over the south china sea and travelled hundreds of kilometres off course, according to a senior malaysian air force official quoted by cnn. according to the official, who had asked not to be named, the plane flew in the opposite direction from its scheduled flight path from kuala lumpur to beijing with its communications equipment turned off and was last seen over a tiny island called pulau perak in the strait of malacca. why the pilot would be travelling in the wrong direction deepens the mystery about the fate of the plane but raises the possibility of a hijacking or technical fault that caused the pilots to not know what direction they were flying. tail anatomy of unenlagiid theropods remains poorly known. the most complete and informative taxon of this family is buitreraptor gonzalezorum from the upper cretaceous of rio negro province, argentina. the aim of the present contribution is to carry out an analysis of the tail anatomy of buitreraptor based on its holotype and a newly collected specimen as well. similarities shared by buitreraptor, rahonavis, anchiornis and archaeopteryx include: mid-caudal vertebrae with postzygapophyses longer than prezygapophyses, and mid-caudal centra with a system of lateral laminae and concavities. preservation of paravian skeletons, as well as muscular reconstruction, indicate the presence of two different functional sections of the tail. this contribution sheds light on paravian tail evolution and provides new data on tail changes that occurred along the theropod line towards modern birds. the simpsons are set to meet the griffins in a crossover episode of family guy next year. fox announced the two families would meet in an episode titled the simpsons guy, where the griffins take a road trip and end up in springfield. simpsons voice actors dan castellaneta, julie kavner, nancy cartwright, yeardley smith and hank azaria will all guest-star in the instalment. the show is scheduled to be broadcast in the us next autumn. fox said the episode will see the griffins "greeted by a friendly stranger named homer simpson who welcomes his new 'albino' friends with open arms". the families become fast friends with stewie becoming obsessed with bart and his pranks, while lisa takes meg under her wing, determined to find something at which she excels. meanwhile marge and lois ditch housework for a bonding session and peter and homer fight over whose town has the better beer: quahog's pawtucket or springfield's duff. friendly rivalry in its announcement, fox offered reaction from the animated patriarchs. "fox hasn't spent this much money since they took simon cowell tight t-shirt shopping," peter griffin said. homer simpson added: "finally i can get my hands on this guy!" the shows have poked fun at each other over the years - one episode of the simpsons features italian police looking through a book of criminals, in which peter griffin's picture appears. another episode of family guy features a dozen simpson characters sitting on the jury where peter is standing trial for drug possession. however the rivalry has grown more friendly recently, with family guy creator seth macfarlane voicing a prominent character in the the simpson's 24th series finale. the fallout continues after a toronto reporter confronted a group of men planning to yell obscenities into her microphone after a soccer game. maple leaf sports and entertainment said it is still trying to identify four men who participated in an offensive 'fhritp' stunt this past weekend, so the organization can ban those individuals from its venues. a ban would likely last for a year. mlse said it will not be releasing information about the identity of the individuals. at least three men yelled obscenities at shauna hunt, a citynews reporter covering a toronto fc soccer game on sunday. she then confronted a group of other men, who were defending the practice of yelling "f--k her right in the p---y" while a television reporter was filming a segment. citynews put the incident online and on air, and the fallout has yet to end. two days after the piece aired, hydro one announced the termination of one of its employees in connection with the incident. the world governing body has identified and approached at least one prospective member in recent weeks for the temporary panel that could replace ffa chairman steven lowy and his board. the person is australian, going some way to allaying fears fifa could put overseas administrators in charge with no knowledge of the sport's domestic intricacies and issues. fifa would not comment when asked to confirm if it had begun speaking to potential normalisation committee members. "as a general rule we do not comment on such matters," a fifa spokesperson told aap. however, appointing locals instead of bringing in outsiders would be consistent with fifa's prior behaviour. the sport's world governing body usually looks to former lawyers, politicians or business people from that country - often with a background in the administration of football, the olympics or other sports - when installing normalisation committees. cameroon, argentina and guinea have all seen such interventions from fifa in the past 18 months. in any event, a normalisation committee would be an interim measure, tasked with overseeing reform to ffa's congress and running the sport's daily affairs before holding fresh elections in which none of its members could stand in. with two months until the fifa-imposed deadline on november 30, it is becoming an increasingly real proposition. talks are continuing among the three stakeholders - the a-league clubs, state federations and professional footballers australia - to find consensus on how an expanded congress should be structured. but the a-league clubs hold the whip hand and can simply stall to achieve their desired outcome of regime change at ffa. the latest proposal from the nine state federations, for a 9-4-1-1 split of votes, has been rejected by the clubs and pfa because it would mean the states still have the power to elect ffa board members on their own. on september 21st 2011 team dignitas ventured into the north american league of legends scene by picking up an upcoming team called rock solid. the team led by captain william 'scarra' li quickly established their spot as one of na's top teams by placing second at iem season vi world championship and at the season 2 na regionals. just over three years later only two members of the original lineup remain although scarra has taken on the role of coach earlier this season. during his stay scarra also made cool videos with team dignitas and hyperx! however, scarra has decided that it is time for him to move on to new opportunities and he will not renew his contract at the end of the season. we would like to wish scarra the best of luck with his future but more importantly we want to thank him for his services over the last three years. the mother and uncle of a canadian woman killed 14 years ago have been ordered extradited to india in stand trial in her alleged "honour killing". malkit kaur sidhu and surjit singh badesha are accused of ordering the murder after jaswinder sidhu, 25, married a rickshaw driver. she was killed in punjab in june 2000 after she travelled there to reunite with her husband. the family has denied involvement in sidhu's death and may appeal. several people have already been convicted of the killing in india. 'campaign of terror' her mother and uncle were arrested in 2012 on charges of conspiracy to commit murder. on friday, british columbia supreme court justice gregory fitch ordered the two to be extradited to india to faces charges there. jaswinder sidhu secretly married mithu sidhu instead of the wealthy, older man her family reportedly preferred. she fled to india to reunite with her husband a few months after her family learned of the marriage. soon after, the couple were attacked while on a motor scooter - he was beaten and she was killed. prosecutors alleged mr badesha had made hundreds of calls to the men eventually convicted of the murder, first starting after her marriage became public, according to the vancouver sun. lawyers for the pair admitted the family was upset with the marriage, but that it did not prove they killed jaswinder. they will remain in canadian custody until the extradition but may appeal. half of the residents of illinois would like to leave the state. it's about the same in connecticut. meanwhile, few wish to move out of hawaii, montana or maine. that's according to a new gallup poll released today, a poll that finds alabama atop fellow southern states. gallup asked: "regardless of whether you will move, if you had the opportunity, would you like to move to another state, or would you rather remain in your current state?" in alabama, just 31 percent of respondents said they would like to move away. that tied florida for the fewest in the south. but when the question was flipped, floridians were less certain. in alabama, 69 percent of residents asserted they want to remain in alabama. and 67 percent said so in florida. kentucky, tennessee and arkansas were close behind, all ranked with slightly more favorable responses than the national average. mississippi and georgia were closer to the bottom of the list, as 39 percent of residents would leave mississippi and 38 percent said the same in georgia. on the whole, most of the south tended to fall near the national average. one third of people across the country want to leave the state they live in. but there is greater variation in other regions. in maine, montana and hawaii just 23 percent of residents would move if they could. close behind are oregon, texas and new hampshire. at the other of the spectrum, more than 40 percent of residents want to leave louisiana, massachusetts, new york, new jersey, rhode island, nevada and maryland. and at the very bottom of the list, in connecticut and illinois, less than half of the residents would stay if moving was an option. the young founder of el compadre, a recently opened offshoot of the critically acclaimed south philly barbacoa, tragically passed away wednesday at the age of 23, family members shared on facebook. isaias berriozabal-martinez, son of south philly barbacoa owners christina martinez and benjamin miller, died at his parents' home wednesday morning of causes that have yet to be determined. last october, berriozabal-martinez opened el compadre at 1149 s. 9th street in what was celebrated as a revival of south philly barbacoa's in-demand torta catering business. he had been a fixture at south philly barbacoa and had saved up enough money to run el compadre during the three years since he immigrated to the united states to join miller and martinez. like his mother, berriozabal-martinez was an undocumented mexican immigrant who braved a dangerous trek to the united states from his hometown of capulhuac. el compadre's menu of tortas was inspired by the local culinary scene of his hometown and neighboring toluca. miller and martinez have been vocal advocates for the rights of undocumented workers in the united states, hosting workshops and film screenings to serve south philly barbacoa's patrons, many of whom hail from mexico and ritually eat at the restaurant on weekends. south philly barbacoa announced on facebook that it will hold nine nights of vigils at the restaurant. an athens court on wednesday acquitted anarchist costas sakkas, 30, over charges of violating his restricted-residence order. sakkas, who is accused of being a member of the conspiracy of the cells of fire urban guerilla group, was arrested on tuesday. police said that sakkas had spent the night at a house in neo psychico, northern athens, where he was arrested, effectively violating an order that restricted him to spending the night at his family's residence in piraeus. sakkas had been arrested on december 4, 2010, outside an apartment in nea smyrni, southern athens, where arms were being hidden. he was granted conditional release in july after going on hunger strike to protest the fact that he was being held in detention for two-and-a-half years, when the maximum period for pretrial custody was 18 months. he denies being a member of conspiracy of the cells of fire. henrico county, va -- henrico firefighters deployed their water rescue unit wednesday for a call about a duck trapped in the ice. the rescue happened at a retention pond at a shopping center in the 9990 block of brook road. when firefighters arrived, they found a duck that looked like it was in distress. it so happened that the water rescue team was set to train at another location at around the same time. so, fire department leaders decided to send the team to the pond instead, so they could practice in a real situation. the rescue crews say the duck was a little suspicious of the rescue effort at first. eventually, though, the water rescue team was able to catch it. firefighters say the water rescue team was able to get some great practice by deploying to the rescue. if you see an animal in trouble on the ice, firefighters urge you to not try to rescue it yourself. rafael da silva is out of manchester united 's champions league clash with real sociedad and facing a battle to be fit for sunday's old trafford encounter with arsenal after suffering ankle ligament damage. the brazilian full-back sustained the injury during united's 3-1 victory at fulham on saturday before being substituted at half-time by manager david moyes. rafael reported for training at carrington this morning wearing a protective boot and will miss the trip to spain. but moyes may now be forced to face premier league leaders arsenal without a specialist right back if the youngster fails to respond to treatment this week. united's medical staff have yet to rule rafael out of the arsenal game, but he is understood to be 'touch and go' for the clash with arsene wenger's team, who could move 11 points clear of united with a win on sunday. if rafael fails to prove his fitness, moyes will turn to either phil jones or chris smalling to fill the gap. meanwhile, michael carrick and jonny evans are both doubts for the sociedad game after missing training today. if you are running windows 10 home you have no option to turn off automatic updates for the operating system. if you choose to use windows 10 professional there are options to defer updates but it is not a process that allows you to avoid updates forever - it actually gives you about four months. microsoft has released a tool that will allow you to hide some of the updates and drivers from windows update if they are causing you issues after their installation. this troubleshooter will walk you through hiding those updates and prevent them from reinstalling automatically. you can use this same tool to unhide those patches once they have been updated by microsoft. the information page for the download does not contain any information about how long the patches will remain hidden but i suspect it is not a tool to hide them forever. i also suspect this troubleshooter is not going to allow every patch for windows 10 to be blocked as that would be counter to microsoft's automatic updates for windows 10 home users. ultimately, this is meant as a troubleshooter for temporary issues and you should unhide updates once microsoft remedies the issue with them. this gallery will give you an idea of what the troubleshooting wizard looks like when it is in use. at least six people have been killed in a syrian war plane attack on the town of yabroud, just across the border from lebanon, reports from lebanon say. nine people were wounded in the attack near the lebanese town of arsal, which hosts many refugees from syria. the reports say several of the injured were taken to arsal while others were transported to baalbek, the largest city in lebanon's bekaa valley. both sides in the syrian conflict have allies and supply lines in lebanon. separately, a man has been killed in the turkish border town of ceylanpinar by a stray bullet fired from across the border in syria, reports say. he is the fourth person to be killed on the turkish side of the border, amid clashes across the border in the syrian town of ras al-ain that has seen fighting in recent weeks. also on saturday, rebels captured an arms depot near damascus, seizing ammunition and weapons, including anti-tank missiles and rockets, from the regime, activists said. the san francisco 49ers drafted will redmond on friday, six months removed from his acl injury. redmond injured his knee in a practice drill, and has been rehabbing ever since. he said he checked out well at the combine re-check earlier this month. on friday, redmond said he expected to play this season, and trent baalke said he expects him to be ready for training camp. i think we'll all believe it when we see it, but fingers crossed for him. in the meantime, twitter user emerson senden sent along this video redmond himself tweeted back in march. it shows him on a treadmill running at a crazy fast pace. it doesn't tell us much about the state of his knee now, but it's more than just a light jog, which is nice. the 49ers have their rookie minicamp next week, and then otas and mandatory minicamp over the next month. then players part ways until training camp. on day one of training camp, the 49ers will have to decide whether or not to place redmond on the nfi list. that's when we'll have a better idea of where things stand. the new jersey devils all-access podcast is the official podcast of jersey's team. join hosts arda ocal and amanda stein as they bring you up to speed on everything happening with the devils - on and off the ice. each week, arda and amanda will dive below the headlines and final scores to give you the lowdown on what's really going on. what does the team do when they're on the road but not playing a game? what's it like traveling with the team, anyway? the hosts will answer those questions and more, and will also be joined by a special guest each episode, ranging from players to team executives to staff members who fly below the radar, to help fans understand all that goes into building the new jersey devils the right way. most of puerto rico is still without power following hurricane maria, so it's difficult for people on the island to communicate with friends and family in the united states, but a group of radio-loving new york city teenagers is using their skills to pass along 25-word messages that are then displayed on large boards in the center of towns for residents to check out. the amateur radio club at the garden school in queens started just last year, and it now has 20 members. they typically compete in contests but have gotten plenty of real-world experience since maria devastated puerto rico last month. people can send an email to their station, k2gsg, and the students craft the "radiogram," or message, and send it. there are about 24 amateur radio operators in puerto rico working with law enforcement and first responders to relay radiograms, and messages are also being sent back from puerto rico to the station. forza motorsport is one of the precious few realistic racing games to hit the mainstream, but you've had to play it on an xbox so far. you typically have to try games like live for speed or project cars to get your fix on a pc. well, you won't have to make that hard choice for much longer -- microsoft and turn 10 are bringing the series to windows 10 pcs. the upcoming forza motorsport 6: apex is a free, distilled version of fm6 that shows what the previously xbox one-only title can do with all the brawn of a gaming pc behind it. it makes full use of directx 12 to produce convincing visual effects, and it'll run in 4k if you have the monster graphics hardware needed to do the resolution justice. melvyn bragg and guests discuss tristan and iseult, as told by thomas of britain and beroul in the 12th century and reworked by gottfried of strasbourg and others, including wagner. melvyn bragg and guests discuss tristan and iseult, one of the most popular stories of the middle ages. from roots in celtic myth, it passed into written form in britain a century after the norman conquest and almost immediately spread throughout northern europe. it tells of a cornish knight and an irish queen, tristan and iseult, who accidentally drink a love potion, at the same time, on the same boat, travelling to cornwall. she is due to marry tristan's king, mark. tristan and iseult seemed ideally matched and their love was heroic, but could that excuse their adultery, in the minds of medieval listeners, particularly when the church was so clear they were wrong? with laura ashe associate professor of english at worcester college, university of oxford juliette wood associate lecturer in the school of welsh at cardiff university and mark chinca reader in medieval german literature at the university of cambridge producer: simon tillotson. pope francis has approved a new vatican department to hear cases of bishops who fail to protect children from paedophile priests. the unprecedented move marks the biggest step yet the vatican has taken to hold bishops accountable for covering up, or not preventing, child sex abuse in the catholic church. the vatican said that francis had approved proposals made by his sexual abuse advisory board. the international commission is made up of clerics and lay people - nine men and eight women - whose role is to help dioceses put in place "best practices" to prevent abuse and work with victims. victims' groups have long campaigned for the vatican to establish clear procedures to make bishops more accountable for abuse in their dioceses, even if they were not directly responsible for it. while no bishop has ever been forcibly removed for covering up for guilty clergy, in april, francis accepted the resignation of a us bishop who had been convicted of failing to report a suspected child abuser. some iranian reaction would be inevitable -- from encouraging hezbollah in lebanon to rain missiles down on northern israel to more limited efforts. while most hope iran would be restrained, there's a chance of a major regional conflict that could draw in the us and countries in the persian gulf and send oil prices soaring. president obama's administration insists that "all options are on the table" regarding iran's nuclear program, but is strongly opposed to unilateral israeli action, not least because it would put us troops in afghanistan and iraq in harm's way. iran has cultivated militant groups in both countries and could increase the number and lethality of weapons it provides them in response to an attack -- which most of the muslim world will see as having been approved by the us. that would not only complicate us efforts to extricate itself from its two current wars, but also shatter us public standing in the muslim world. an attack would also boost hard-line iranian president mahmoud ahmadinejad and his circle, generating a 'rally around the flag' effect that would further undercut the opposition and increase his standing in the broader muslim world. a village council in uttar pradesh let off an alleged rapist after he touched his victim's feet, according to a report in the times of india. the charade in the name of instant justice was carried out right in front of the local police. a 30-year-old woman, working at a levelling project under the mnrega at a forested area in meergunj, was alone during the lunch hour on january 28 when the 32-year-old accused, rohtash, allegedly dragged her to an isolated spot and raped her, the report said. the accused threatened to kill her if she raised an alarm. when she went to the meergunj police station to lodge a complaint, police officials refused to take her seriously. they called up the village head instead, who called for a panchayat or council outside the police station. the accused, rohtash, was asked to touch her feet and ask for forgiveness. when he did, the panchayat declared him absolved of his guilt and even asked the survivor to stay mum on the crime. when the rape survivor called the superintendent of police, brijesh srivastava, he directed the meergunj police to lodge a complaint. a passenger train has derailed in the canadian province of ontario, killing at least three people and injuring dozens of others. the train travelling from niagara falls to toronto crashed near burlington, operator via rail said. about 75 people are believed to have been on the train, and 45 were injured. it is not clear what caused the accident. images from the scene showed at least one carriage lying on its side. via rail said the three people killed were employees, and a fourth crew member suffered minor injuries. tv footage showed the seriously injured being carried away on boards and stretchers while others were led out of the wreckage by emergency workers. three passengers were airlifted to hospital, one with a heart attack, officials said. burlington mayor rick goldring said the crash had caused damage to nearby buildings. passenger deanna villela, of welland, ontario, said she felt a slight bump before the train left the tracks, sending people and luggage flying. canada's transportation safety board said it had launched an investigation. greens leader richard di natale has proposed a direct levy on coal miners to fund "billions of dollars" in environmental rehabilitation work on former coal mine and storage sites as well as the retraining of coal industry workers for the clean energy jobs of the future. in one of its most important policy markers leading into the pre-election period for a 2016 poll, dr di natale will unveil the plan on tuesday and will use an address to the national press club in canberra on wednesday to flesh out the details. mine site rehabilitation is extremely expensive. credit:robert rough "as coal companies go bankrupt or leave australia, it is coal workers who are hit the hardest, followed by state governments, who are regularly left to foot the bill for cleaning up the mine," dr di natale said. the compulsory payments, likely to be opposed by the industry and the federal government as a form of industry-specific carbon tax, would contribute to "a federal trust fund for the companies to access at the conclusion of their operations". did you ever notice the branding elements shared by the adidas logo and a marijuana leaf? those design similarities popped into focus when an adidas commercial called "your future is not mine" appeared on screen monday evening during abc television's airing of 2016's first presidential debate. at the 18-second mark, the short film's free form, forward-moving narrative passes through the center aisle of what looks like a professional-scale marijuana grow facility. advertisement outside of its commercial context, the message of "your future is not mine" as it pertains to the televised political event might be interpreted as a summation of millennial dissatisfaction with both candidates. directed by terence neale, the minute-plus spot has been living on the internet since january 2016 and has racked up more than 1 million youtube views. chances are, a meaningful percentage of those viewers salivated at the quick flash of an emerging marijuana industry at the start of the clip. but viewers didn't really need a hit until they saw that "future" weed in conjunction with the presidential choices facing them. according to a new report from the globe and mail which has been confirmed by blackberry, dan dodge, co-founder and ceo of qnx software systems has resigned from the blackberry subsidiary, and will retire at the end of the year. we are grateful for dan dodge's contributions to qnx and blackberry and his work building a start-up to an undisputed leader in embedded software. with dan's retirement, john wall, who has been instrumental to the success of qnx as chief operating officer, will transition into the role of senior vice president and head of qnx. we're appreciative of dan's 35 years of dedication to qnx and wish him all the best in his retirement. as dodge notes in the article, "my decision to leave was my own," he said. "i threw my own party, invited everybody from qnx that i've known over the last 35 years and we had a grand time". dan dodge and gordon bell began work on qnx as students at the university of waterloo in 1980 and by 1982, the first version of qnx was released. in 2004, qnx software systems was sold to harman international industries and was already widely used in the automotive industry for telematics systems. on april 9, 2010, qnx software systems was then sold to then research in motion which then used it to power the blackberry playbook, blackberry 10, the blackberry iot platform and continues to grow it through various sectors such medical devices, industrial automation systems, network routers, and other mission- or life-critical applications as well as the automotive industry where it's currently used in over 50 million vehicles. enjoy your retirement dan, and thanks for everything! there's one thing we have in abundance around here, it's reverence for the tools of rock 'n' roll. guitars, drums, basses; we think all that stuff is great. every once in a while, though, we come across an instrument that's so historic, so iconic, and so badass, that it truly blows us away. this is one of those pieces. it's a late '40s epiphone b-5 upright bass that belonged to marshall lytle. marshall was the bass player for bill haley and his comets during their 1950s heyday, and he used this bass to record such classics as "rock around the clock", "shake", "rattle and roll", and "rock the joint". think about that for a second. those three songs were the beginning of a cultural earthquake whose aftershocks are still rumbling in the 21st century. the lexicon of early rock bass playing was written by marshall on this very instrument. it's currently on display at the hard rock cafe in orlando, florida. a summer internship to learn more about astrophysics turned into a stunning coup for monash undergraduate amelia fraser-mckelvie when she helped solve one of the big mysteries of science. astrophysicists have long been baffled by a belief that the universe must have a greater mass than is visible in the planets, dust and stars that make up much of what can be seen. but they had no way of proving it. they estimated that about half the mass required to keep the universe functioning as it does was ''missing''. looking to the heavens: undergraduate amelia fraser-mckelvie. credit:wayne taylor ms fraser-mckelvie found some, and her discovery will aid the development of telescopes in australia. the 22-year-old aerospace engineering student, who works with monash astrophysicists kevin pimbblet and jasmina lazendic-galloway, explained. my local food basics grocery store sells spanish chorizo and i have been enjoying using it in various dishes. chorizo is extremely popular right now and recipes using this sausage are available all over the net and on tv. there are two different types of chorizo and it is important to know what you are using when you cook with it. spanish and portuguese chorizo is typically made with chunks of pork and the sausage is cured. european sausages are often cured and each region has its own variety from german salami, italian capicola and spanish chorizo. spanish chorizo can be diced or sliced and used in cooking the same way that you would use ham. mexican chorizo is raw and uses ground or minced pork. when cooking with mexican chorizo it is important to make sure that it is fully cooked. it is possible to cook the chorizo, then slice and dice it to include in the dish you are preparing. it is also possible to remove the raw chorizo meat from the casings and add it to dishes as you would italian sausage. the recipe below includes one of the most common ways to eat chorizo; with eggs. chorizo and scrambled eggs go extremely well together and adding it to a breakfast taco will give you an extra special morning meal. in 1884 near tantanoola in south australia's south east a bengal tiger supposedly escaped from a travelling circus. a search was mounted, but the tiger was never found. over the next few years, there were many reports of missing sheep in the area and some suggested that the sheep had become the prey of the missing tiger. eleven years after the tiger went missing a local man, tom donovan, saw what he thought was the bengal tiger in a paddock with a sheep in its jaws. he took a shot at it with his gun and shot the animal in the side. as it turns out, it was not a bengal tiger, but a eurasian wolf - equally out of place in the australian environment. it is thought that the wolf was a stowaway on a boat that was shipwrecked off the coast, but managed to make it to the shore. the wolf was stuffed and is now on display at the tantanoola hotel. for fifteen years after the shooting of the wolf, however, sheep continued to go missing from the area. a policeman from adelaide eventually went to investigate and arrested a local man for sheep stealing. police have arrested a popular indian spiritual guru for an alleged sexual assault on a 16-year-old schoolgirl at a religious retreat, a local official says. asaram bapu, one of many self-styled hindu "godmen" who attract large numbers of followers, was arrested shortly after midnight on sunday in the central town of indore. asaram bapu: spiritual guru accused of sexual assault on a 16-year-old schoolgirl at a religious retreat in central india. credit:afp the 72-year-old was then flown to the western city of jodhpur where the alleged assault on the girl - whose parents were members of his congregation - took place, local deputy police commissioner ajay pal lamba said. the guru had earlier failed to report to a police station voluntarily, despite being given a deadline that ended last friday. mesut ozil was not only the best buy of the english summer. he was also the stupidest sell. real madrid must have again wept into the fountain at the plaza de cibeles, in the square where they celebrate their triumphs, as he dismantled napoli in the first half here with his artistry. many a page will groan and countless blogs will glow this season with descriptions of ozil's talent, which is most lethal when he is expending the least effort. shaping his foot to finish, gliding into space or flicking a ball past bamboozled defenders, ozil affirms that a cool mind causes the most destruction. like all the best players, he operates on his own clock, and performs entertaining acts according to his own sense of how a ball should work as a weapon. off to a flier: mesut ozil. credit:reuters but ozil's greatest virtue, in the arsenal context, is that he is a proven winner who has reached the age of 24 not hoping but expecting to lay hands on trophies. his cv is full of conquests. a spanish league winner with real in 2011-2012, he is also a european under-21 championship winner with germany and a german cup holder with bremen, where he also reached a uefa cup final. the last thing arsenal needed now, especially at 50 million euros), was another floaty, decorative attacking midfielder who would value beauty more highly than outcomes. ozil is the polar opposite of self-indulgent. he displays no interest in empty elaboration. every move he makes, every pass he directs, is intended to cause a problem, or open up some possibility. capcom: please introduce yourself and give us a little background on what you do for marvel. sean chen: i'm a veteran comic book artist with about 20 years in the industry. mostly known for a long run on the iron man comic, but have also done stints on wolverine, x-men, spider-man, the avengers, among others. these days i split my time between comic and advertising. in comics, i do mostly covers and special projects for different publishers. in the advertising industry, i mostly do storyboards for television commercials. gerardo sandoval: my name is gerardo sandoval. i have worked on titles such as: age of apocalypse, x-men, guardians 3000, new avengers, wolverine and venom. capcom: who is your favorite character to draw from both the marvel and capcom universes and why? sean chen: i always love drawing iron man since i am very tech oriented. a big part of the fun of drawing comics is to engage a variety of character types, and this book had them all. a great counterpoint to the hard edges of iron man was the organic and feminine forms of storm and morrigan. it was also great fun to draw the anime and cartoon characters as zero and viewtiful joe. i would have to say that morrigan was the most fun to draw from the capcom side because she had a unique offbeat design. in terms of personality, viewtiful joe was great fun to portray because of his big, in your face attitude. gerardo sandoval: venom, wolverine, sagat or zangief. for some reason, i am not into the good guys, i always liked the bad guys. not luke skywalker but darth vader, not spider-man but venom, not ryu but sagat. villains, or anti-heroes, are more interesting characters for me so i really enjoy drawing bad guys. also, when i was a gamer, i always played as a villain. who we are encore capital group is a global specialty finance company with 66 years of operating experience and data accumulation. our subsidiaries purchase or service portfolios of receivables from major banks, and partner with consumers as they repay their obligations and work toward financial recovery. customer service and regulatory compliance are at the heart of our business and are implemented through our collections strategy. mission we help people recover from financial difficulty and turn toward a path of economic empowerment. we believe this can only be achieved through mutual engagement, understanding, collaboration and respect between our company and consumers. more encore across the globe encore capital group has over 8,500 employees across 17 countries. our operations and investments span across north america, latin america, asia, europe, oceania, and australasia. clearly, tom brady is frustrated with his lack of available weapons on the new england patriots offense. the losses of wes welker and brandon lloyd still haunt this drastically underachieving unit. it certainly has not helped that all-pro tight end rob gronkowski and versatile running back shane vereen are missing due to injuries. however, the injury of wide receiver danny amendola is the most concerning of all. with amendola unable to play against the new york jets on thursday night football, the aerial attack of the patriots struggled greatly. rookie wide receivers aaron dobson and kenbrell thompkins seemed lost at times and never fully jelled with their quarterback. it is also doubtful that new england will hang its hat on julian edelman going forward. even upon the return of these injured players, the patriots will need some insurance. after all, gronkowski and amendola do not have favorable injury histories. the team needs another veteran wide receiver's presence in the lineup. the easy fix would have been re-signing lloyd, but it was revealed by pro football talk that he does not have the desire to continue his career. so, which veteran wide receivers should receive a call from the patriots? a sailor is suing the department of defence for the cost of bringing up her child after navy medical staff failed to detect her pregnancy. emily hetherington, now aged 26 from queanbeyan, nsw, is seeking damages for pain and suffering and loss of earnings, claiming if her pregnancy had been confirmed she would not have kept the child. victorian supreme court justice bernard bongiorno was told on thursday that ms hetherington did not find out about her condition until she was 22 weeks pregnant and by then it was too late for an abortion. ms hetherington underwent a series of medical examinations on january 14, 2008, in hobart after enlisting with the royal australian navy when she had no idea she was already pregnant. a urinary pregnancy test was conducted and found to be negative. - police are searching for the person who stole a vehicle from a paramedic. burholme emergency medical services has been serving the community in northeast philly and helping save lives for almost 85 years. "our staff provides 24 hours emergency care to our community," ems supervisor blake bradley told fox 29 tuesday night. while serving the community friday night out on an emergency call, police say someone broke in the rear kitchen window of the non-profit ems groups' headquarters on bleigh avenue. police say the burglar quickly located two sets of car keys and then drove off in a white 2016 jeep compass belonging to one of the ems workers. "i think it's a terrible incident. very aggressive for somebody to break into a non-profit ambulance organization," bradley explained. investigators say the suspect left at least one identifiable fingerprint on the window. surveillance cameras captured the suspect entering and exiting the building and then driving off in the ems dispatcher's suv. the video has not yet been released by police. "our dispatcher works very hard continuously. he loves his job here, loves what he does and i feel absolutely terrible for his car being stolen," bradley explained. ems supervisor blake bradley says in the eight decades the squad has been here they've never been robbed or broken into. "if someone could please step forward and provide some information on whereabouts the car may be or who this person is or where he may be," bradley added. burholme ems crews now carefully secure the building and double check all windows and doors. if you have any information you can call northeast detectives. a man found with guns in a disneyland paris hotel was on tuesday condemned by a french court to six months' house arrest and made to wear an electronic tagging bracelet. prosecutors had sought a nine-month suspended sentence for the 28-year-old who was found to be carrying two handguns, ammunition and a koran when he was arrested last thursday. disneyland paris said the guns were picked up by routine scanning of the man's bags at the hotel entrance. police were called to disneyland paris last month after a man tried to check-in to a hotel with two handguns the man, who has not been named, has been sentenced to six months' house arrest following the incident a police source said at the time of the arrest that preliminary investigations did not point to terrorism, and that the man had said he was carrying the guns because he feared for his safety. the paris restaurant worker, a convert to islam, will spend his sentence at his mother's house in the loiret region southwest of paris. the court in the city of meaux, east of the french capital, also banned him from carrying firearms for five years. the defendant, with long hair in a bun and a short beard, told the court that he had bought his first gun to defend himself after being the victim of an act of aggression. the defendant, who has not been named, has to live with his mother in the loiret region, southwest paris he added that he had acquired the second pistol after the november 13 jihadist attacks in paris that left 130 people dead. described as 'a boy with a big heart' by his girlfriend and a 'pathological liar' by the judge, the man told the court that had not wanted to leave his firearms at his mother's home where he was living. despite the discovery of the guns and the koran, and after several islamist attacks in and around paris last year, investigators had quickly ruled out the possibility that the defendant had been planning a terror attack. having been approached by national geographic channel's 'car sos', we were given the task of restoring two cars as part of the third series of the popular television show. the second car in which we helped to restore was this, a 1963 alfa romeo giulia spider. on the face of it, the car didn't look like it was in too bad of condition but once we started to take a closer look we were concerned at the amount of underseal and filler that appeared to be under the car. taking no risk, we stripped the shell and agreed for the car to be sent away to be chemically dipped. once we got the shell back it was apparent that this car had had a lot of repair work over its time on the road. multiple patches had been bogusly welded all over and the holes that were missed were simply filled. having the car in bare metal meant we could crack on with the fabrication work as we lost precious repair time whilst the car was having its acid bath. the body was welded solid along with a new front panel being fitted. then came the prep work to make sure all the panels were nice and smooth before the bianco pininfarina paint was applied. the suspension was rebuilt and painted by us whereas the engine was sent away to an alfa specialist. trim was done by aldridge in walsall. film exploring the ways in which people survive at extreme altitudes where nature becomes utterly unforgiving, from lush cloud forests to bare summits. from lush cloud forests to bare summits that take your breath away, the higher you climb the tougher life gets on a mountain. human planet explores the extraordinary ways in which people survive at extreme altitudes where nature becomes utterly unforgiving. in the altai mountains in western mongolia, the vast open spaces make hunting for animals almost impossible, so the locals have forged an astonishing partnership with golden eagles which can do the hunting for them. on the precipitous cliffs of the simien mountains of ethiopia we join a young boy locked in a dramatic battle with fearsome gelada monkeys which are hellbent on raiding his family's meagre grain harvest. in the himalayan state of nepal we witness a rarely seen ceremony - a sky burial. in a land where there is little wood to burn for cremation and where burying the dead is virtually impossible, the dead are fed to vultures in the ultimate reverence of nature. when bandai namco announced a pc port for dark souls there was much rejoicing. then, when it was announced that it would release on the dreaded games for windows live platform, there was much rage. well here's good news: come november, those who own dark souls on gfwl will have the opportunity to transition over to steam. next month users can redeem their gfwl tokens on steam in order to access dark souls. while you'll be able to do this indefinitely, the transferal of save data and achievements will be possible for a limited time only. more specific dates will be provided soon, bandai namco posted today. the publisher announced earlier this year that it had plans to accommodate those still playing dark souls, despite gfwl's imminent death. it's one of the last games with ties remaining to the service, with most studios and publishers making the jump to other platforms much earlier. the charge: that palin broke state ethics rules by holding national television interviews about her run for vice president from the governor's office. the complaint comes as palin's personal life, her prospects as a future presidential candidate and everything she says and does continues to draw headlines. zane henning, a north slope worker from wasilla, said he filed the complaint with the attorney general. he says palin is promoting her future political career on state property, pointing in particular to the governor's nov. 10 interview with fox news channel host greta van susteren. "the governor is using her official position and office in an attempt to repair her damaged political image on the national scene," henning wrote. the palin camp, besieged by interview requests, said the governor was no longer a candidate at the time of interviews, but otherwise had little to say about the complaint. "the consideration of complaints under the executive branch ethics act is a confidential process, by law," wrote palin spokesman bill mcallister. the hollywood star of republican party frontrunner donald trump has been vandalised and defecated on by both humans and their pets. the us presidential hopeful has had a star on the hollywood walk of fame since 2007 following the success of reality television show the apprentice. however the gold and brass star has recently been subjected to vandalism, including a spray-painted swastika and pet poo, as many americans take issue with the real estate mogul's rhetoric and policy plans, the los angeles times reported. however, officials of the walk of fame told the times they have no plans to remove the star. "the hollywood walk of fame is a registered historic landmark," president of the hollywood chamber of commerce, which operates the walk of fame," said leron gubler. "once a star has been added to the walk, it is considered a part of the historic fabric of the hollywood walk of fame. can you imagine using a computer without a monitor? how would you know where to click, where to type or what images your screen should be showing? these challenges are very real for people who are blind and visually impaired. most of us have never considered how we would use a computer, let alone the internet without sight. though the visually impaired are cut off from much of what we think of as the internet, they can, and do, use it in as many ways as everyone else. computers can be challenging without sight, but the solutions that have emerged are ingenious, and constantly evolving. some recent advancements in tech, such as smartphones, wearables and connected products, may even come to benefit visually impaired people more than the sighted. but without help from the sighted, many of the functions we enjoy online will remain inaccessible to the visually impaired. the first step to change that is understanding the challenges. here's a tour of a side of the web that sighted people can't see, guided by those who know it best. the ruling was one of the rare cases where an individual owner or director of a company was successfully prosecuted for breaching heritage law, and could set a precedent for other sydney councils fighting to save heritage buildings. "what often happens is that developers hide behind their company, but in this case the council directly pursued the owner of the company," said leichhardt mayor rochelle porteous. cr porteous said the landmark decision sent a strong message to developers who attempted to flout heritage laws. "we wanted to send a message that heritage matters. the demolition and removal of buildings and other structures must be done within council's planning controls," she said. cr porteous said a number of other sydney councils had called leichhardt's legal team to congratulate them on the win and ask how they pulled it off. paris: cyclists who dope themselves with epo may not gain any performance advantage even though they are putting their health at risk, scientists said on thursday. in a review of the evidence, a team of european researchers scoffed at the entrenched notion that epo gives cyclists an edge. lance armstrong was stripped of his seven tour de france titles in october after united states anti-doping authority found him guilty of systemic doping, including use of epo, during his career. credit:ap and they pointed out that the drug has many perils for those who use it illicitly, including blood clots that can cause strokes and heart attacks. "athletes and their medical staff may believe epo enhances performance, but there is no evidence that anyone performed good experiments to check if epo would actually improve performance in elite cyclists," said adam cohen, a professor at the centre for human drug research in the netherlands. one person was killed and more than 25 injured in the violence in the kandhamal area on tuesday, police said. christians said it was sparked by hindus objecting to a performance they were staging to celebrate christmas. but a hindu group said it began when christians tried to attack a local hindu leader on monday, christmas eve. it said a group of people surrounded the vehicle carrying swami laxamananda saraswati as he was on his way to the area. he was taken to hospital but was not seriously hurt. now 'under control' however it started, the violence appeared to culminate in the attacks on churches on christmas day. christians were chased out of several churches - in many case just mud huts with thatched roofs - before they were set alight, officials said. one person was reported killed in the violence, but it was unclear whether that was a hindu or a christian. hundreds of police were deployed following the violence, which had largely died down by wednesday, a local government official said. "the situation is tense but under control," said bb mishra, a state inspector-general of police. orissa, which is mainly hindu and has a tiny christian minority, has seen violence between the two communities in the past. the state has a law obliging people to ask for police permission before changing religion - thought to be a measure aimed at christian missionaries. hindus have accused christian groups of forcing low-caste people to convert. christians say they often convert willingly because of their treatment as outcasts. a man who allegedly sent offensive letters to the families of soldiers who died in afghanistan has told the high court that wounding someone's feelings is not a criminal offence. man haron monis, also known as sheik haron, wants the court to quash multiple indictments alleging he used the postal service to offend the families of fallen diggers as well as relatives of a trade official killed by a bomb in jakarta. lawyers for mr monis and his co-appellant, amirah droudis, told the court today the relevant section of the commonwealth criminal code was invalid because it infringed the implied constitutional freedom of political communication. the letters were critical of australia's involvement in afghanistan and denigrated the deceased soldiers. one said the australian nation was to blame for the 2009 bombing in indonesia because it was silent about the government's "oppressive behaviour" overseas. the fight broke out on sunday evening when a dog belonging to a 32-year-old woman did its business in a local park, reports die welt. a 33-year-old female passer-by, seeing the dog's owner walk on, demanded that she clean up her dog's mess, police reported. when the woman refused a shouting match ensued. before long the 33-year-old had thrown her keys at the dog owner and hit her on the head. at this point a passing man managed to separate the two women. but that wasn't the end of it. the dog owner returned a few minutes later with male reinforcements and once again things got violent. by this point five people were involved in a full blown fist fight. one person was even using a club, police revealed on monday. according to town regulations in bergisch gladbach, not cleaning up dog poo can carry a fine of 30 euros. the police are also investigating serious bodily harm due to evidence of serious wounds, swollen arms and ripped out hair as a result of the fight. this is not the first time this year that enraged germans have made headlines with an act of protest against dog poo. in april, locals in einbeck, lower saxony, gathered 250 kg of dogs' leavings from the town's parks and hung it round the neck of a famous local statue in protest against lazy owners. the latest hospital waiting list figures show that 534,947 patients were waiting at the end of september for inpatient, day case treatment, or to be seen at an out-patient clinic. the total number is up by around 3,000 on the august figure but the waiting list for gastrointestinal checks is down. according to the national treatment purchase fund, 78,696 people were waiting last month for inpatient or day case treatment. a further 17,984 were waiting for a gastrointestinal check, which is a reduction of around 300 on the previous month's figures. a total of 438,267 people were waiting to be seen at an outpatient clinic, up by over 3,000 on the august figures. speaking in limerick today, the minister for health simon harris said he expects the hse to deliver on the commitment to halve the number of people waiting over 18 months for inpatient or day case treatment, by the end of the year. he said waiting lists remain a major issue but it makes sense to target patients waiting the longest. the first flock of games to support xbox play anywhere have been listed. these are the games that will be cross-buy on windows 10 and xbox one, which means if you buy one version, you get the other free, and your saved games and add-ons work with both. microsoft announced xbox play anywhere during it's e3 2016 press conference, and it sounds like all of the first-party games will support it going forward. the list isn't much of a surprise, then, but it's there for reference nonetheless. the xbox play anywhere games: gears of war 4 forza horizon 3 recore sea of thieves halo wars 2 scalebound killer instinct season 3 state of decay 2 ark: survival evolved cuphead we happy few crackdown 3 there's an xbox play anywhere faq but it doesn't add anything noteworthy enough to put down here. an employee of montreal's la ronde amusement park who strayed into a restricted area while doing repairs was killed friday by a passing roller-coaster train. ambulance workers treated numerous clients of the ride and employees for shock after the incident. the 67-year-old employee was declared dead immediately and there were no efforts to revive him because of the obvious extent of his injuries. story continues below advertisement la ronde said the ride will be closed indefinitely pending an investigation. a spokesman for the amusement park said investigators want to know why the employee was in the tightly controlled area while he worked. the park said preliminary findings show the ride was operating properly, the area where the employee was found was secure and the man did not notify the ride operator of his movements. "our thoughts and prayers go out to our team member's family," the park said in a statement. from bob mckenzie of tsn, victoria's joe hicketts is the only defenceman invited to this camp who wasn't invited to the summer camp. at 5-foot-8 and 175 pounds, he's not blessed with extraordinary size or speed, and the 1996-born blueliner wasn't drafted by an nhl team last summer. but after attending detroit's summer prospect camp, and then getting invited to the wings' rookie tournament team in traverse city, the undrafted free agent sufficiently impressed the wings to get an nhl contract. he's been an offensive dynamo in the whl this season. with seven goals and 36 points in 28 games, he leads all whl defencemen in scoring, but he's fifth amongst all players in the whl. it doesn't hurt that lowry, who will handle the defencemen for groulx, is hicketts' head coach in victoria. for a defenceman of that stature in the wjc, hicketts doesn't have the same dynamic qualities to his game as, say, ryan ellis in 2009 and 2010, but he has a scrappy get-things-done mentality and puts up points. human beings have two sides to them, physical and psychological, and these have had two contrasting repercussions in business. the material needs of man have led to the great corporations of our age. the giant multinationals have arisen on the back of providing us with things we need to wear, to eat, to house ourselves, to call each other and to transport us to work. however, remarkably, the psychological dimensions of man, despite their importance, have had very little business impact. there are no multinational corporations that make it their task to guide us to the meaning of life, or to help us to be good and kind or to lead us through our rites of passage, from birth to death. those who operate in the psychological space tend to be a motley crew, who work on their own and are suspicious of all organizations. the therapists, poets, artists and intellectuals of our time are cottage industries. fixed prices for consumer goods and services will be virtually non-existent within five years, experts predict, as an uber-style pricing revolution is sweeping the uk. "peak time" pricing where the cost of items rises and falls according to demand is set to become commonplace in supermarkets, at petrol stations and on energy bills. unlike paper price tags, so called "e-prices" are linked to shops' computer systems which can move them up or down by up to 90pc in a day. the technology lets shops react to events during which they can remove offers on sought-after items, for example ice creams and chilled drinks during heatwaves and sandwiches at lunchtime. it is already commonplace in europe and the us but is likely to cause a stir if introduced in the uk, where shoppers are increasingly cost-conscious. file photo of andhra pradesh chief minister chandrababu naidu. andhra pradesh was told earlier this month by its government that it is 17,500 crores in debt, which means there's little wriggle room to help farmers with loan waivers or to upgrade infrastructure in cities. but the broke state's law-makers aren't being left wanting - 175 members of the legislative assembly have been gifted an iphone6 each. at least 40 legislative council representatives have also got apple's finest. the bill, paid by taxpayers, is more than rs 1 crore. andhra pradesh has, over the years, established a tradition of sorts in gifting each law-maker with a fancy electronic device - a laptop or tablet - once a year. chief minister chandrababu naidu, who is back in power after a decade, has decided the ritual is worth maintaining. the handing over of the iphones was low-key with little publicity in the media. sources say there was a poll asking legislators to choose what kind of smart gadget they would like to be gifted. they were not shy of picking an expensive item -the iphone6 won. ''i have also collected my iphone, but we refused to take part in a grand dinner that was to be hosted by the government tonight,'' a senior leader from the opposition ysr congress told ndtv on the condition of anonymity. new zealand bar and restaurant owner fred bennett was puzzled when plenty of locals visited after he started selling thai food, but no thais, a newspaper reported. he didn't find out why until the departure of the thai chef who had suggested the new name he had made into a sign for the restaurant in the south island city of nelson, the nelson mail reported. the departing chef had told him the sign meant "welcome and see you again," but the first thing his replacement asked bennett was, "why did you call your restaurant 'go away and don't come back'?" "that's why it pays to research," a rueful bennett told the paper. "i'd like to apologize to the thai community if i have offended them, which i'm pretty sure i would have," he said at his restaurant, now renamed victory thai. microsoft decided to take a not-too-subtle pot shot at google's self-driving car project this week. microsoft believes that google's automated vehicles could benefit from its kinect motion sensor technology. in a post on the kinect blog , microsoft, without mentioning google by name, refers to a recent report that one of google's self-driving cars hit a bus in mountain view, california in february . the car reportedly drove around some sandbags in a wide lane, and it believed a nearby bus would slow down, but it didn't and the two vehicles collided. could a kinect sensor have helped the autonomous car make the better decision? researchers at the university of la laguna in the canary islands think so. they are building a system that uses the kinect sensor's infrared depth camera to help self-driving cars identify nearby obstacles and maneuver around or over them. using a self-driving golf cart, the researchers tested the kinect depth camera against a laser rangefinder and stereo cameras. by operating the vehicle on a test road that contained stairs, ramps, and curbs, they discovered that the kinect sensor outperformed the other two devices in detecting and correctly discerning nearby, close-to-the-ground objects. so far, google has yet to issue a response to the kinect blog's statements. this post may contain affiliate links. see our disclosure policy for more details. last week, we revealed how the back cover of game informer's february issue held the keys to understanding the teaser trailer. but what about the incredibly detailed wall over which the camera pans in that video? the zoomed-in glimpses you see within the trailer are more than they may first appear to be. the carved images are part of alduin's wall, named after the powerful dragon that serves as skyrim's central antagonist. alduin's wall is an actual structure within the game world of skyrim, and it plays a key part in the story of the game. it depicts a prophecy heralding the return alduin to the world of the elder scrolls, as well as the history of the dragons and their interaction with humanity. each section of the wall tells a different part of the story, and we'll explain every area in detail. each of the previous games in the elder scrolls series play a part in the prophecy. later this month, we'll be digging in to reveal more about the in-game mechanics, combat, and technical features that make skyrim shine. but today we dedicate the following feature to the role-playing and story lovers. dig in and explore alduin's wall by clicking on the image below. for our wide-reaching overview of the elder scrolls v: skyrim, make sure and check out the february issue of game informer. for more online content about the game and its developer throughout this month, explore our game hub from the image below. there has been a great deal of research examining the link between a polymorphism in the promoter region of the maoa gene and antisocial phenotypes. the results of these studies have consistently revealed that low activity maoa alleles are related to antisocial behaviors for males who were maltreated as children. recently, though, some evidence has emerged indicating that a rare allele of the maoa gene-that is, the 2-repeat allele-may have effects on violence that are independent of the environment. the current study builds on this research and examines the association between the 2-repeat allele and shooting and stabbing behaviors in a sample of males drawn from the national longitudinal study of adolescent health. analyses revealed that african-american males who carry the 2-repeat allele are significantly more likely than all other genotypes to engage in shooting and stabbing behaviors and to report having multiple shooting and stabbing victims. the limitations of the study are discussed and suggestions for future research are offered. at planet computers, we are passionate about typing, writing, being productive and creating on the go. since the introduction of touchscreen mobile phones and tablets, we felt that it is very difficult to type on these types of devices. on-screen keyboards often take up half the readable screen. we want to get back to typing on a fully tactile keyboard whilst being able to view the entire screen. all this on a device no larger than most modern mobile phones. we decided to re-invent the palm-sized keyboard mobile device that will benefit many, who we think are missing using the keyboard on the move. from bloggers and creatives that need to constantly write, to professionals who need to read and write e-mail, create and edit documents and spreadsheets. date written: april 22, 2016 abstract this paper explores the institutional determinants of persecution by studying the intensity of the black death pogroms in the holy roman empire. political fragmentation exacerbated rent-seeking in the holy roman empire. we argue that this fragmentation led to jewish communities facing more intense persecutions during the black death. we test this argument using data on the intensity of pogroms, historical trade routes, ecclesiastical and political boundaries. in line with our model, we find that communities close to archbishoprics, bishoprics, and imperial free cities experienced more intense and violent persecutions than did those governed by the emperor. we discuss the implications this has for the enforcement of the rule of law in weak states. the first step out of bed could have been a big one. a woman in guatemala city reports that a sinkhole, 40 feet deep and almost 3 feet across, opened under her bed monday. "when we heard the loud boom we thought a gas canister from a neighboring home had exploded, or there had been a crash on the street," inocenta hernandez, 65, said in an agence france-presse report. "we rushed out to look and saw nothing. a gentleman told me that the noise came from my house, and we searched until we found it under my bed," afp quotes hernandez as saying. the area is prone to sinkholes. in may 2010, a sinkhole about 60 feet across and 100 feet deep opened in the area, swallowing buildings and an intersection. in 2007, another sinkhole claimed three lives in barrio san antonio in guatemala city. hernandez told afp that she is thankful the surprise under her bed wasn't any bigger. "thank god there are only material damages, because my grandchildren were running around the house, into that room and out to the patio," afp quoted her as saying. lg electronics has announced major top-level executive changes designed to make the company stronger and more nimble. it'll now be led by three representative directors: jo seong-jin, president and ceo of the home appliances division; juno cho, president and ceo of the mobile business; and david jung, overall president and cfo. with this decision, these three executives will now have "more independence and responsibility to facilitate rapid decision-making," and lg electronics's four companies will also gain greater autonomy, according to the firm. the present ceo and vice chairman of lg electronics, koo bon-joon, is going to an unspecified leadership role at the lg corp parent company. lg's mobile division has been performing poorly of late, but tv and appliance sales have improved the company's bottom line. by giving further control to the executives in charge of mobile and appliances, lg hopes to gain more mobility in each segment while freeing up other divisions that are primed for future growth. vehicle components, for example, is one of lg's four main subsidiaries and an area that the company has earmarked as an important source of business in the future. three idf soldiers belonging to the nahal haredi battalion shot and killed a camel in the jordan rift valley friday following a dispute with a local bedouin. the bedouin said the soldiers were trespassing through his property. a formal complaint was handed over to the idf through the civil administration. the three soldiers involved in the incident left their base without permission around 6 pm friday in order to tour the area. they passed by a local bedouin resident and entered his tent. following an argument that lasted several minutes, the soldiers left the tent, but one of them kneeled down and fired at the camel. the bedouin immediately phoned civil administration officials and reported the incident. the administration's representatives, accompanied by nature reserve authority members, rushed to the area and attempted to save the camel's life. however, it was gravely hurt and died at the site. army to deal with 'grave incident' a report on the incident was relayed to the nahal brigade, to the kfir division, and to the military police. the civil administration's chief, brigadier general yoav mordechai, spoke with senior palestinian officials in the jericho area and pledged to look into and deal with the incident. military officials said the incident was grave and will be dealt with through disciplinary action. a picture distributed on facebook, shows the ambulance heading to a horrific crash scene in sofia has been provided free access during an anti-government protest. the sofia city prosecutor's office has requested from the city hall to provide a written statement on allegations that the anti-government protest rally had prevented an ambulance from accessing a main boulevard. according to the prosecution, the ambulance heading on tsarigradsko shosse boulevard to the scene of the horrific wednesday evening crash in which a taxi cab ram into a group of people standing at a bus stop, has been delayed by 12 minutes because it did not have free access due to the rally and was forced to make a detour. the sofia prosecutors have started legal proceedings against an unknown perpetrator and are asking mayor, yordanka fandakova, to issue an opinion if the protests on main roads and key intersections should be banned. however, the director of the emergency medical unit in sofia, dr. georgi gelev, firmly rejected the above. he told the bulgarian national television that there have been no delays whatsoever and all six ambulances have arrived at the scene within 15 minutes. the standard time is 20 minutes. the first ambulance has arrived within 4 minutes, the doctor says, adding the ambulances came from various sofia hospitals. one person died from injuries sustained in the crash, while 11 have been hurt, 4, including a child, seriously. meanwhile, the demonstrators distributed on social networks many pictures and videos from wednesday evening, showing the said ambulance had free access to tsarigradsko shosse. fandakova and the sofia police chief have a 12 pm friday deadline to issue their official opinion. when you can't have your own private island, you can always create your own. russell, as the video identifies him, has put more than a good amount of effort into saving his house from the white river flood waters. he's gone so far as to build a moat that seems to have kept his property in pristine condition up to this point. friends and family recently joined him to add sandbags to the moat, in order to fight rising waters. it's incredible, and even picturesque, despite the tragic flooding. the white river flood is a part of the larger mississippi river flooding which has reached historic levels. however, this arkansas man seems to have found an answer to the problem for himself. click here for live updates of the mississippi river flooding. a 17-year-old girl was sexually assaulted twice - by two different men - on a train as she travelled home from a music festival. british transport police say the "shocking" assaults happened between newquay and plymouth on 12 august. the first man, who was wearing a novelty shark hat, started tickling the girl after she refused a kiss, so she moved seat. a second man then kissed and touched the girl inappropriately, police say. the victim had been to the boardmasters music festival and had been travelling home when she was attacked. police say the incidents happened between 20:45 and 21:00 bst. investigating officer det con matt grieve, said: "this was a deeply upsetting and shocking incident for this young woman and we are urgently seeking witnesses". the first offender is described as a white man with pale skin, ginger hair, and wearing a white shirt with a palm tree on it. he had blue shorts on and was wearing a novelty shark hat. the second offender is a white man, with pronounced sideburns, and wearing a white polo shirt. he gave his name as lance, according to police. this one was actually based off of a suggestion from reddit. basically he wanted a greatsword that could launch a shuriken by swinging the blade. sword form: fairly standard greatsword-type weapon secondary form: the blades separate, allowing a shuriken stored at the base of the blade to be launched out using the force of the swing. shuriken: this is the most interesting part of the weapon. the shuriken is attached to the sword via a cable that naturally extends up to 20m as the shuriken is launched from the blade. the shuriken starts out in a collapsed form, then extends into a more standard weaponized form once it leaves the blade. the cable allows the shuriken to be retracted back into the sword after throwing it, and naturally the shuriken turns back into its collapsed form when doing so. the retraction can be stopped just before it gets back inside the blade and the shuriken used to extend the reach of your swings with the sword. if the shuriken catches an opponent, the retraction can be used to either pull the enemy towards you, or vice versa. the shuriken can also be used as a grappling hook, angling the blades differently to maximize it's ability to catch ledges and the like. the sword holds 2 spare shurikens and can detach the cable from the currently loaded shuriken if absolutely necessary. these spare are only used as emergency back-ups in the event that the main shuriken gets destroyed or caught and cannot be retracted or otherwise quickly retrieved. a san francisco start-up called good2go wants to make it easy to find clean, well-lit bathrooms in any major city. and you won't have to touch a single surface inside them, either. the company's ios app, available thursday, will present users with a map of nearby bathrooms at private establishments, along with a rough estimate of how long a user will have to wait in line there. once on site, users will wave an app-generated code at a sensor on the door to unlock it automatically, with no need to pick up a key at the counter or ask permission. good2go plans to partner with businesses such as restaurants and grocery stores to put their bathrooms on its network. the start-up modernizes their facilities, installing "touchless" lights, sinks, hand dryers and toilets, all operated by waving a hand across a sensor. even the door to a good2go bathroom opens automatically. a juror who pretended he was sick so he could go to a west end musical has been jailed for two weeks. matthew banks, 19, told officials at manchester crown court he was ill but he had actually gone to london to watch chicago. the trial was halted for a day as other jurors were sent home. judge martin rudland labelled the student "frivolous" and ordered he served a 14-day sentence at a young offenders' institution. judge rudland said he was jailing banks, who could spend christmas in prison, for contempt of court "with a heavy heart". however, the judge said that lying to court officials for such a frivolous reason was a serious offence. the week-long trial, which banks had been sitting on, later continued in his absence with the remaining 11 jurors reaching a verdict, judicial communications office officials said. mr johnson will on thursday be joined by mr gove as he launches his bid for the conservative party leadership. he is expected to say that while he is "pro-immigration" he wants to see an end to the free movement of eu citizens. friends said that he will set out his "positive" vision for britain and suggest that brexit offers people the chance to "believe in ourselves and the values of this country". mr johnson and mr gove are "rock solid" and that there is "no split" between the two men, friends insisted. sources close to mr gove said that the leaked email represented the "personal opinion" of his wife rather than his own. theresa may, the home secretary, will launch her campaign for the conservative party leadership less than an hour after mr johnson as she sets out her vision for "a country that works for everyone". mrs may, who campaigned for britain to stay in the european union, will attempt to win the support of eurosceptics by announcing the creation of a new government department which is responsible for brexit negotiations. london: britain's home secretary amber rudd has complained to her us counterpart over the leak of the identity of the manchester suicide bomber to the american media. mrs rudd took the extraordinary step of making the uk government's frustration with the americans public on wednesday as counter-terror investigators worked to identify possible accomplices of 22-year old salman abedi. on wednesday morning, local time, police in manchester arrested three people in the city's south. they had already arrested a 23-year-old man in relation to the attack. us media identified that man as abedi's brother, citing "us officials". as was the case with the westminster attack in april, british press held off reporting the attacker's name - even though they knew it - to avoid endangering the investigation or tipping off any further suspects. but on tuesday, us networks cbs and nbc named the perpetrator hours before greater manchester police confirmed his identity. attention: ea origin prepaid cards may contain a regional block, so we recommend reading carefully the countries from which it is possible to activate this ea cash card. we recommend that you read carefully the countries in which it is possible to activate it before buying it. the ea origin cash card is an alternative way to pay for your ea games similar to a gift card. this card will add balance and funds to your ea account to spend on any product, including pc games. to activate these funds, we will need a valid ea account. once the account is created, we will need to log in to our personal account and enter the code to obtain the funds. once this procedure is completed, we will be able to access the funds to purchase any product from the platform. david farrar: providing strategic advice to a group planning a campaign to get rid of mmp. a group of national and act party activists is preparing to launch a campaign against mmp. details of the campaign, to be launched soon in the lead-up to the referendum on mmp on election day in november, have been leaked to the sunday star-times. among the campaign's key players is simon lusk, who played a major role in don brash's leadership coup against act leader rodney hide. jordan williams, the young wellington lawyer who accompanied brash on the day he deposed hide, is being considered for the role of frontman of the campaign. david farrar, national's pollster and a well-known right-wing blogger and columnist, is providing strategic advice. also involved is right-wing blogger cameron slater, known as whale oil. pulling a rabbit out of a hat, or tricks of a similar ilk, may have dazzled generations of children. but the future of live magic could be under threat, thanks to the rise of the youtube magician. the rising popularity of online videos is leading to a loss of key skills which could damage the very existence of live magic in years to come, a leading magic circle member has warned. jamie raven, who belongs to the prestigious inner magic circle, said amateur magicians are increasingly learning their trade behind the camera, perfecting one trick on film to post for "likes". but while youtube and social media may spark an interest in magic, he warned essential skills such as interacting with real people to control or misdirect their attention are being lost. if the current obsession for online profile continues, he said, in generations to come "there will be no magic shows, there will be no live interaction". former everton, wigan and swansea manager roberto martinez has been appointed as the new head coach of belgium. spaniard martinez, 43, was sacked by the toffees in may after three years in charge at goodison park. he succeeds marc wilmots, who left his post last month, two weeks after the euro 2016 quarter-final defeat by wales. the vacancy was advertised online by the belgian football association. it wanted a "strong and open communicator" who has a "proven track record in transmitting tactical and strategic knowledge" to top players. bbc presenter and former england striker gary lineker gives his reaction on twitter in a statement, the belgian fa said it was "delighted and proud to have found a coach at this level so quickly". martinez will hold a news conference at 11:30 bst on thursday and his first match is against spain on 1 september. at everton, martinez managed belgium internationals marouane fellaini, romelu lukaku and kevin mirallas. hello a private therapeutic day school for students in grades 6-12 is relocating from niles to arlington heights. new hope academy plans to move into an office building at 3250 n. arlington heights road, just south of dundee road, before the start of the 2017-18 school year in august, according to brandy larrance, the school's executive director. the school, founded in 2000, educates students with special needs from 35 suburban school districts, including northwest suburban high school district 214, palatine-schaumburg high school district 211, and school districts as far as gurnee, naperville and yorkville. there's 65 students enrolled at the school's location at 6289 howard st. in niles, but the school plans to increase enrollment to 80 with the move to arlington heights, larrance said. new hope will occupy 18,000 square feet of the 73,000-square-foot, multi-tenant office building, which is now about two-thirds vacant. the school would include 12 classrooms, an art studio, gym, cafeteria, staff lounge and offices. the village board this week approved a land use variation that allows the school to move in. new hope plans to install new landscaping before occupancy. visa europe has begun suspending payments to whistle-blowing website wikileaks ahead of carrying out an investigation into the organisation. it follows a similar move by rival payments processor mastercard on tuesday. visa's announcement comes after wikileaks' founder julian assange was arrested by police in london. mr assange, whose website has published secret documents, is wanted in sweden on sexual assault allegations. wikileaks relies on online donations to fund its operations, which will now not be possible using both visa and mastercard debit and credit cards. a spokeswoman for visa europe said its investigation would determine the nature of wikileaks' business, and "whether it contravenes visa operating rules". she added that visa europe could not suspend payments to wikileaks immediately, and that the process took a certain amount of time. mastercard said in its statement that it was "in the process of working to suspend the acceptance of mastercard cards on wikileaks until the situation is resolved". online payment firm paypal and internet giant amazon have also cut their links with wikileaks in recent days. president obama's bump has made its way into three key swing states, according to new polling from marist college, nbc news and the wall street journal. the new marist polls show obama leading mitt romney by five points each in florida and virginia and by seven points in ohio. obama's margin in all three states is larger than it has been in other recent polling and suggests the democratic national convention paid dividends for the president in the states where it matters most. national polling has suggested a small but significant obama bounce, but there has been limited polling in swing states since the convention ended a week ago. obama leads 50 percent to 43 percent in ohio and 49 percent to 44 percent in both florida and virginia. if obama were to carry even two of these three states -- which are the biggest swing states on the map -- romney's path to victory would be very difficult. these states provide 60 of the 95 electoral votes available in the eight states rated as toss-ups by the fix. according to a fix analysis wednesday, if the other states go as expected, obama only needs to win 33 of those 95 electoral votes. television host sonia kruger has acknowledged that her call to end muslim immigration to australia may be seen as extreme, but has defended her right to voice her opinion after her comments on national television ignited a fierce national debate. speaking for the first time publicly since her comments on monday drew heavy criticism from some sections of the community, an emotional kruger did not back down from her stance when she opened channel nine's today extra program on tuesday. kruger, the former dancing with the stars host, said she had nothing but "complete respect" for people of all races and religions. but she explained how she was feeling after 84 people were killed and hundreds more injured when a truck drove through a crowd on bastille day in nice, france. controversial author ed klein, a former editor of new york times magazine, is traveling in indiana with republican front-runner donald trump. the author confirmed to the washington examiner on monday that he is with trump as he campaigns around the state ahead of tuesday's primary, which is expected to be a tough battle against the billionaire's nearest rival ted cruz. "we're moving from place to place," said klein. he declined, however, to give details about why he is with trump. "i'm actually in the middle of doing something right now, unfortunately, but i can't talk about it now or for the rest of the day," he said. klein is the author of the 2015's unlikable: the problem with hillary, a critical book that purports to deliver an insider account of democratic candidate hillary clinton and her long quest to become president. it depicted clinton as a power-hungry politician who lacks the charisma and charm to fulfill her white house ambitions. klein maintained in his book that clinton is severely ill and possibly physically unfit to be president. in late april, klein published a column at newsmax explaining that he has a relationship with trump. "i've known trump for 35 years, met with him on numerous occasions, talked to him on the phone countless times, traveled with him, and written two lengthy magazine cover stories about him," he wrote. he said trump has "an ace in the hole" to lock up the gop presidential nomination. before the rise of trump, however, klein believed it was marco rubio who would be the best bet to defeat clinton in a general election matchup. klein recommended john kasich as rubio's best choice for a running mate. a spokesperson for the trump campaign did not return a request for comment. the market for power forward glen davis is heating up, as teams prepare to play any card they possess in order to land the big man prior to a post-season push. the los angeles clippers were reportedly front-runners prior to the magic releasing him thursday, but as word of his availability spread, so did the interest. brooklyn is now a strong candidate for his services as the nets are hoping that kevin garnett's former ties with davis can be used as a selling point, while espn's marc stein is reporting that the miami heat are now planning to make an outside move. davis can't sign with a team until he clears waivers and officially becomes a free agent on monday, but those involved believe his decision will be clear before the weekend is over. a week of absurdity around a confused racial con artist, and a massacre in a black church brings us to this: today is the 150th anniversary of juneteenth, when the last of the american slaves were told they were free. now, to put it to good use, at a time when a post-racial era seems very much out of reach. the first black man to live in the white house, long hesitant about doing anything bold on the color divide, could make one of the most simple and dramatic moves of his presidency: apologize for the land of the free being, at one time, the largest slaveholding nation on earth. the confederate flag that still flies on the grounds of the statehouse in south carolina, cradle of the civil war, is a reminder that the hatred behind the proclaimed right to own another human being has never left our shores. an apology would not kill that hatred, but it would ripple, positively, in ways that may be felt for years. mcginn, 27, skated in 21 games with the syracuse crunch of the american hockey league last season, posting 10 goals and 19 points to go along with 16 penalty minutes. mcginn missed most of the regular season due to injury. four of his 10 goals came while on the power play. mcginn also skated in 22 calder cup playoff games with the crunch, recording five goals and 16 points. the 6-foot-3, 218-pound forward has appeared in 256 career ahl games over five seasons, collecting 76 goals and 142 points. the fergus, ontario native has skated in 89 career nhl games, including two with the lightning during the 2015-16 season. mcginn has notched nine goals and 17 points to go along with 44 penalty minutes in his nhl career. he made his lightning debut on november 1, 2015 against the carolina hurricanes. mcginn was originally drafted by the philadelphia flyers in the fourth round, 119th overall, at the 2010 nhl draft. a couple of years ago, some friends and i took a road trip from the east coast to the southwest. we spent about two weeks across the mexican border in the state of chihuahua, mostly in ciudad juarez. it was here where i first tasted horchata- creamy, sweet, and so refreshing in the summer heat. i've been trying to recreate that experience ever since with all sorts of powders and boxed rice milks, but it wasn't until i stumbled upon this recipe that i was really taken back to juarez. as far as i know, this recipe is very authentic, with evaporated milk thrown in for an extra creamy punch. trust me, your friends and family will be amazed! all of the ingredients are cheap and easy to find. one thing you should make sure you have for this recipe is a cheesecloth, which can be found in the baking section of most grocery stores. if you don't drink milk, this horchata is still good without the evaporated milk, just increase the sugar to about 1 cup or to taste. anusha samaranayake, a sri lanka cricket fast-bowling coach, has been cleared of the fixing allegations over which he had been suspended in february. slc had launched an inquiry about samaranayake's role in the fixing-related approach of more than one sri lanka cricketer last year. however, the icc has since informed slc that there is no evidence samaranayake has breached its anti-corruption code. despite this, samaranayake's role with slc remains in hiatus, as he has more recently been found guilty of a separate disciplinary misdemeanour, slc secretary mohan de silva said. this inquiry had related to samaranayake's entertaining of guests at slc's academy at khettarama. samaranayake's contract with slc runs until the end of december; although his position has not been terminated, slc appears reluctant to having him resume his duties. samaranayake has contributed to the development of several sri lanka fast bowlers, with bowlers including lasith malinga and nuwan kulasekara citing his influence on their careers. slc said a concrete decision on samaranayake's future will be made in the coming weeks. a plane touched down in montreal on saturday night carrying the 25,000th syrian refugee to arrive in canada since november. it marks the end of the first phase of the resettlement program launched by the liberal government shortly after taking office. there was little fanfare on saturday to mark the milestone, but immigration minister john mccallum is scheduled to give an update about the resettlement program in toronto on monday. mccallum is expected to outline what actions the program will take in the future. officials with citizenship and immigration canada had anticipated reaching the milestone at some point over the weekend, but were unclear exactly when given uncertainty about how many refugees board each flight. reaching the 25,000-figure represents an important step for the liberal government, which made an election promise of resettling that many people fleeing the civil war in syria. the liberals had initially promised to reach the goal by the end of 2015, but that was pushed to the end of february once they took power. of the 25,000 who have now arrived, more than half will have their costs covered by the government in their first year, with the rest supported by private groups or a mix of the two. in the coming days, the new group of arrivals will spread to eight different provinces, joining those who've arrived in canada since the government launched their syrian refugee plan in november. square enix's remake of final fantasy x has re-emerged after over a year in the shadows, making an appearance at a japan-centric vita heaven event that ran through forthcoming releases for the struggling handheld. first announced at tgs in 2011, there's been nothing shown on final fantasy x hd since its reveal. although there was no word on a release date as the game broke cover today, there was the briefest glimpse of it in action as a number of character models were shown off. famitsu was quick-fingered enough to grab a handful of screens of ffx hd in action. elsewhere, the event was packed with an assortment of monster hunter clones already announced for the machine, and ones that have little chance of making it outside of japan. perhaps of most interest was dragon's crown, the sublime looking side-scrolling rpg being developed by vanillaware that follows in the footsteps of saturn favourite princess crown as well as the developer's own muramasa: the demon blade. the biggest news, however, was the price-cut for the playstation vita that's to take hold at the end of the month. will we be receiving similar news come the playstation meeting in new york this wednesday? apple has rightly made a big deal of the fact that its mac sales have continued to grow, in spite of a contracting pc market. but cupertino certainly isn't alone in having figured out how to win at desktops and laptops: lenovo has just reported big gains in its full-year revenue and profits, and it claims that its pc shipments in the us overtook apple's for the first time, grabbing the no. 3 spot behind the more stagnant giants, hp and dell. this claim is based on data for the last three months, likely with a bit of help from analysts at idc, although it's worth pointing out that gartner still had lenovo in fourth place in the us as recently as april. whichever pundits you listen to, lenovo has now dominated the pc market globally for around a year, thanks to its ever-expanding thinkpad line, while also growing its non-windows tablet and smartphone sales -- with the latter soon to become a lot more prevalent in the us now that the company owns motorola. reliably hitting 90 fps in vr is a significant challenge. this talk will present a method for adaptively scaling fidelity to consistently maintain vr framerate without using reprojection techniques, even on very low-end gpus, while also having the ability to increase fidelity for high-end gpus and multi-gpu installations. valve's aperture robot repair vr experience that was shown at gdc 2015 required an nvidia 980 to maintain framerate, but this talk will use that same experience as an example of how we now adaptively scale fidelity to maintain 90 fps on an nvidia 680, a 4-year-old gpu. the end result is an engine that appears higher fidelity throughout the experience, a lower gpu min spec, increased art asset limits, and a system that allows developers to stop focusing on framerate and instead spend their time increasing the quality and performance of their renderer while consistently maintaining framerate. amazon's quest for better deals and cheaper prices has seen it squeeze publishers, but it isn't limiting itself to just books. the new york times reports that the retailer is refusing to list dvd and blu-ray pre-orders for upcoming launch of many warner home video movies. we're not talking small releases either: the lego movie, 300: rise of an empire and winter's tale are just three titles launching in the coming days that amazon lists but isn't allowing customers to order. last month, the company admitted it was limiting orders for new hachette books, including jk rowling's forthcoming release the silkworm, in an attempt to gain cheaper pricing for e-books. now it's stuck stalemate with suppliers that are unwilling to acquiesce to its demands -- a risky situation that is already pushing some amazon customers to shop elsewhere. juan agudelo: could be set for a move to celtic after impressing on trial the chivas usa man linked up with celtic for a training stint in november as he tried to secure a move to a european club during the major league soccer close season. the 20-year-old is regarded as one of the best young talents in america and has attracted the interest of a number of clubs across europe. celtic are hoping to win the race for agudelo after he impressed neil lennon and his coaching staff during his time on trial. lennon is keen to bolster his attacking options in this month's transfer window and they have now made an offer to chivas as they look to bring the colombian-born forward to celtic park. i can still remember the first time i saw someone playing a handheld electronic game. they were sitting on a bench in front of my school all alone and the most magical sounds were emanating from the magic box they were holding. they were playing electronic quarterback from coleco and i was riveted. soon a crowd gathered and we all watched in wide-eyed wonder at this new electronic wonder. i bet almost every kid who passed that bench gave their parents an earful that night about this new type of game. i ran home and started digging through catalogs, making sure i had the name right so that i could properly put it on my upcoming birthday list. i wound up with a mattel electronic game instead, which was fine. from looking through the catalogs, i knew the coleco version was much more expensive and i was just happy to get anything. teifi is an unpasteurised, organic, vegetarian cheese from wales. produced by the caws teifi cheese company, this semi-hard cheese was created by john and patrice savage-ontswedder. the cheese is similar to gouda with a deep sunshine-yellow interior. there are several varieties of teifi, depending on the period of maturation. when young, the cheese has a mellow, slightly sweet flavour and a smooth, creamy texture. as it matures, teifi develops deep, rich flavours with a hard and almost flaky texture, similar to parmesan. the affinage usually takes two to nine months. sometimes nettles, seaweed, garlic, onion, sweet pepper and cumin are added for a distinct flavour. teifi is also available in a smoked version. the cheese melts in strings and therefore tastes excellent when heated, toasted and added as a flavouring on pizzas. the islamic state has issued a vicious and detailed call to "lone wolf" followers to stab, shoot, poison and run over australians at iconic attractions including bondi beach and the mcg. the latest exhortation from the terrorist group follows the death in syria of convicted australian terrorist ezzit raad, who was jailed in connection with the 2005 plot to blow up the mcg and features as the latest jihadist poster boy in a new magazine. in its first edition of rumiyah published overnight, the terrorist group calls for lone wolf attacks in australia in a manner of detail not seen before in the group's publications. "light the ground beneath them aflame and scorch them with terror," it states, painting the attacks as the way to avenge the death of raad. there's a little over two weeks to go until intel extreme masters san jose kicks off at the sap center on the 6th and 7th of december, and we're pleased to announce the fantastic talent lineup who'll be presenting the starcraft ii action to you. hosting the stage will be none other than paul "redeye" chaloner, while the analyst desk will be hosted by richard lewis. providing insight and commentary will be esl and wcs regulars, shaun "apollo" clark, james "kaelaris" carrol, yoan "tod "merlo and kevin "rotterdam" van der kooi along with sean "day" plott. additionally, joining them on the stage for translations will be the incredibly talented sue "smix" lee. the full talent lineup is as follows: paul "redeye" chaloner richard lewis shaun "apollo" clark james "kaelaris" carrol sean "day" plott kevin "rotterdam" van der kooi yoan "tod" merlo sue "smix" lee for the latest information on intel extreme masters san jose, be sure to keep an eye on the official intel extreme masters website as well as following us on facebook and twitter. it's not too late to grab your tickets for intel extreme masters san jose - get yours here! philippe coutinho, roberto firmino and alex oxlade-chamberlain recently provided a special christmas surprise for local schoolchildren - watch the kids' priceless reactions now. the liverpool trio headed to st paul's catholic junior school, based in the shadow of the club's melwood training base in west derby, to interrupt unsuspecting pupils as they spoke to lfctv. the 20 lucky children aged 7-11 thought they were simply being filmed picking out their favourite lfc players, but were soon joined by our festively-dressed reds stars. the day was extra special for young natalia, who moved to liverpool from sao paulo just six months ago and got to meet two of the brazil national team's main men before conversing with them in their native portuguese. check out our must-watch youtube clip of the delighted kids below. in a meeting with yun in beijing, li stressed it is china's consistent policy to ensure peace and stability on the korean peninsula. chinese premier li keqiang on wednesday assured south korean foreign minister yun byung-se that beijing will not tolerate north korea's nuclear arms, according to a diplomatic source. the same day, senior chinese apparatchik wang jiarui voiced support for south korea's offer of talks between seoul, beijing and washington to ease tensions on the peninsula. so far china had been opposed to the idea. wang called for north korea to be involved as well. yun said he told wang that seoul cannot accept pyongyang's demands that any disarmament talks between the two koreas should exclude the issue of denuclearization. south korea and china also agreed to install a diplomatic hotline linking the two foreign ministers. this weekend is apparently a big weekend of pre-draft visits for the san francisco 49ers, according to nfl network reporter ian rapoport. he tweeted that ucla linebacker myles jack will be in santa clara to meet with 49ers brass. the 49ers have been connected to jack in mock drafts, but their primary "real" connection to him this offseason was when linebackers coach jason tarver worked out the ucla linebackers. jack is finishing up his recovery from a torn meniscus. he suffered the injury in late september, and it cost him the rest of the season. he has yet to run a 40-yard dash, and while that is far from the end of the world, it is something that will likely be discussed during the meeting. jack's ucla surgeon cleared him previously. the 49ers inside linebacker need is not necessarily the most pressing need, as gerald hodges and michael wilhoite would be adequate options next to navorro bowman. however, if jack was available at no. 7, there's a good chance he would be the best player available. the best chance for jack to slip would be if both jared goff and carson wentz go in the top six. if both are gone, that drops at least one quality defensive option. my guess is jack will still be gone, but the top six could be unpredictable. a woman who received a new kidney after posting a plea for help on craigslist is recovering in a miami hospital, and so is the donor. selina hodge posted a plea online in july asking for someone to donate a kidney. the 28-year-old then turned to the craigslist classified ad website. she told florida television station wptv she "didn't know where else to turn". hodge received more than 800 responses from all over the world from her craigslist ad. one came from 23-year-old stephanie grant, who lived just a few kilometres away from hodge in palm beach gardens. the two drove together to the university of miami medical centre campus several times for evaluations. the women underwent transplant surgery today. the women's families told the tv station that both patients were doing fine after surgery. forget ron vlaar and those pesky manchester united rumours for a second, let's talk adnan januzaj. the talented red devils youngster looks set to go out on-loan in this current window and it seems that aston villa could be keen on a move for him. januzaj looks set to have a bright future at old trafford after rising to the first-team under david moyes, his former manager is also thought to be keen to take him to real sociedad. januzaj hasn't featured much in the plans of louis van gaal yet and the school of thought seems to be to get him out on loan to gain some experience. the only way villa could sign the youngster on-loan though would be for tom cleverley's deal to be made permanent in january as premier league clubs can only loan one player from a club at any one time. a deal for cleverley in january looks unlikely with the midfielder out of contract at old trafford in the summer. could villa be the perfect place and would he offer something to paul lambert's side? police reported at least six shootings in the city over the weekend, including a boy who was shot in the leg. according to police, a 15-year-old boy was shot in the leg in the 11000 block of hopkins avenue . he was taken to rainbow babies and children's hospital. in another incident, cleveland police said a woman, 39, was shot in the buttocks in the 2900 block of east 117th street. she was taken to university hospitals for treatment. in a third incident from sunday, a 28-year-old woman was shot in the leg in the 13000 block of crennell avenue. she was taken by ems to university hospitals in critical condition. cleveland police also reported two other felonious assault shootings on saturday, including a man shot in the head in the 10000 block of way avenue, and a 28-year-old man shot in the arm at east 120th street and euclid avenue. an 18-year-old man also received a gunshot wound to the ear and leg at lee road and judson drive, police reported. eric bates, the former executive editor of rolling stone, is joining the new media organization being launched by ebay founder pierre omidyar and journalist glenn greenwald. according to a post from omidyar about newco -- what the project is currently being called -- bates "will be instrumental in helping us define our editorial strategy for a general-interest audience as well as the editing infrastructure we will need to support our independent journalists. bates worked at rolling stone for nearly a decade, editing top stories on politics and national security. he was the editor of "the runaway general," the award-winning 2010 feature on gen. stanley mcchrystal by the late michael hastings. bates also participated in four interviews with president obama while at the magazine. rolling stone laid off a couple high-ranking staffers earlier this year, including bates. previously, bates worked as investigative editor at mother jones and was editor-in-chief of southern exposure. this year, he became a scholar at nyu's institute for public knowledge and has reportedly been in the running for the top editor job at the columbia journalism review. when news broke last month that omidyar was working on a new venture with journalists greenwald, laura poitras and jeremy scahill, little had yet been determined about the media outlet's structure. omidyar told huffpost that the media outlet will hire experienced editors, along with high-profile writers dedicated to their specific beats. science is fun when you're learning with pflumm! my students need 34 "agnes pflumm and the stone creek science fair" books to incorporate reading into the science curriculum. my students science should be fun! the agnes pflumm books provide students with an opportunity to read about science and the scientific method while truly enjoying what it is they are reading. my students come from a diverse array of backgrounds and cultures. the school i teach in is a title i school so many of my students come from an inner city home. these 7th graders are eager to learn and are at the perfect age to truly experience science. i see 7th grade as a perfect time to get them excited about science by encouraging them to explore and investigate the world around them. i want these students to have an opportunity to experience science, to do science and to develop a love of science at a young age. i try to incorporate opportunities for each child to experience successful learning and these books provide many students with that success. my project by utilizing the agnes pflumm books, students learn about the scientific method, an essential concept in science, all the while enjoying the experience of reading in the content area. students start to develop ideas about their own research projects and begin to visualize themselves as young scientists in the making, all the benefits of a true learning experience. students become problem solvers while learning. these students are tomorrows engineers, technicians, scientists. inspiring a love of science and learning now, will help them to realize that they can pursue a career in science in the future. part of inspiring that ambition is to make learning fun. the philosopher friedrich nietzsche was one of the most brilliant and dangerous minds of the 19th century. his uncompromising and often brutal ideas smashed the comfortable presuppositions and assumptions of religion, morality and science. his was a world not just bereft of god but almost of humanity, breathtaking in both its post-religious starkness and its originality. bettany hughes goes in search of the beliefs of a man whose work is amongst the most devastatingly manipulated and misinterpreted in philosophical history. nietzsche's dislike of systems and of seeking truths left his ideas ambiguous and sometimes incoherent. it was this that made him vulnerable to interpretation, and as a result his thoughts - which warned against the very notion of a political system like totalitarianism - were manipulated to strengthen its ideals. vocally opposed to anti-semitism, his anti-semitic sister made sure he became the poster boy for hitler's drive for an aryan ideal. anti-nationalistic, he came to symbolise a regime he would have loathed. his philosophical quest led him to isolation and ultimately madness, but his ideas helped shape the intellectual landscape of the modern world. sydney and the rest of nsw can expect more hot days, shifting rainfall patterns and more extreme fire danger weather as a result of global warming, according to the first high-resolution modelling of the future climate. the nsw and act governments combined with researchers at the university of nsw's climate change research centre to generate scenarios for 100 square-kilometre grids out to 2030 and 2070 for all of eastern australia stretching from south-east queensland down to the east half south australia. burning: the number of extreme fire weather days will likely increase in spring and summer for most of the state. credit:wolter peeters under some previous models, sydney was treated as having the same climate as towns much further inland, such as bathurst. "all of our models agree that it will get warmer in nsw," said matthew riley, director of climate and atmospheric science for the office of environment and heritage. cold days will also be fewer, particularly on the great dividing range. hearts interviewed former captain steven pressley yesterday as their search for a new head coach continues. the 43-year-old met ann budge, owner of the edinburgh club, and director of football craig levein. he is one of the first to be formally interviewed for a job which became vacant when hearts sacked ian cathro last week. others will also be approached in the coming days, with the former england manager steve mcclaren also on the shortlist to replace cathro. pressley's interview comes a year since his last managerial job at english league one club fleetwood town. he previously said he would have no interest in returning to scotland to manage but the chance to take the reins at hearts would guarantee a rethink. pressley spent eight years at tynecastle as a player and captained the club to their 2006 scottish cup success. his managerial cv includes spells in charge of falkirk, coventry city and fleetwood. he most recently helped out at the strachan football foundation, run by scotland manager gordon strachan. hearts are in no rush to make an appointment and will head to rugby park to face kilmarnock this weekend with jon daly in interim charge. he is still expected to be in place the following week against rangers whilst the tynecastle hierarchy decide who is the man to take them forward. at least 21 people are feared dead after a chemical plant explosion in china's hubei province. reports of an explosion at the site have emerged this afternoon, with five wounded alongside the fatalities. a picture from the scene in dangyang, shows firefighters battling large flames at the chemical plant. the incident unfolded after a high pressure steam tube broke, authorities have confirmed. among the five wounded, three are said to have serious injures. the tragedy is reminiscent of a similar incident last year, when there was another chemical plant explosion in the zhejiang province. and in january this year another explosion was seen in the south-central chinese city of lengshuijiang. the tragedy has been confirmed to cctv, china's state broadcaster. the instagram android app has acquired over 500 million installs, a milestone that only a few items in the play store can claim. the majority of them come from google, but instagram marks the third one from facebook. facebook messenger passed this bar back in august of last year. by the next month, the main facebook app managed more than double that amount. aside from google and facebook, only two other companies have made it into this exclusive club, with one gaining access on a technicality. microsoft is in, thanks to skype. the other is samsung, whose push service has managed this many installs with most users not even aware that it exists, let alone actively searching for it in the play store. clearly facebook's presence has not discouraged users from flocking to instagram in the years since the acquisition. we'll have to wait and see if the service's growth slows down any time soon. the small grill will hold the briquette. it needs to sit about a quarter inch or so below the bottom of the grill due to the thickness of typical charcoal briquettes. first you need to connect the legs. put all 4 screws through the holes and secure them with a nut, but only thread one completely through. do not tighten this nut either just yet, it should be loose. next put the grill on the leg and loosely thread another nut on it about halfway down. for the remaining legs you'll need to screw the nuts in about halfway, align them with the holes in the grill, and then push them all the way through securing them with a second nut on the end. you will probably need to bend your tabs a little more at this point to get the alignment just right. at the end of this step tighten the top nut on all of the screws to secure the legs to the tin. liverpool striker daniel sturridge has returned to full training for the first time since damaging his hamstring while on england duty in august. brendan rodgers's side have won only four times in 14 matches without him. sturridge, who scored 21 goals in 29 league games last season, was nearing a return to action last month before picking up a calf-strain. reds boss rodgers expects sturridge to be available for the next league game, away to crystal palace on 23 november. media playback is not supported on this device liverpool's brendan rodgers criticises daniel sturridge injury rodgers criticised england's handling of the 25-year-old after he was originally ruled out for up to three weeks. he has played only three premier league games this season, scoring in the 2-1 home win over southampton on 17 august. liverpool are 11th in the premier league table, 15 points behind leaders chelsea, and without a top-flight win in their last three outings. they are also fighting to stay in the champions league after three straight group b defeats. if your gym routine is new to you, it's natural to feel hesitant about heading to the weight room. from weight loss to toning up, there are many reasons why weight training deserves to be a part of your life, but it can be a little nerve-racking if you're not sure where to start. luckily, popsugar fitness host and personal trainer anna renderer has taken all that anxiety out of the equation with an easy-to-follow dumbbell circuit workout that's designed with the beginner in mind. anna says that doing two moves back to back is a great way to feel the burn, and this workout does just that. perform the first move in the circuit 10 times to complete a set, then the second move 10 times to complete a set. switch back and forth until you've completed three sets of each. then, do the same for the second and third circuits. terry joseph, who coached the tennessee defensive backs and also served as the vols' recruiting coordinator the last two seasons, has taken a job on the nebraska staff. joseph informed tennessee coach derek dooley of his decision on friday. joseph had coached with dooley at louisiana tech and came with him to tennessee. with joseph leaving, that means the vols will have an entirely new defensive staff next season. he's also the seventh assistant coach to leave tennessee's staff since the end of the 2011 season. sal sunseri is the vols' new defensive coordinator after coming over from alabama. derrick ansley, who was a graduate assistant at alabama and worked with the crimson tide's secondary, was hired in february to coach the vols' cornerbacks. john palermo is the vols' new defensive line coach after spending the last two seasons at middle tennessee. palermo also coached on the washington redskins' staff and spent 15 years coaching at wisconsin. dooley said last month that he felt the program had been energized by all the new coaching blood. the only two coaches remaining from his original staff are offensive coordinator jim chaney and receivers coach darin hinshaw, who's moving over to receivers after coaching the vols' quarterbacks the past two seasons. new delhi: south korean ambassador to india on thursday called for checking a "resurgent china" and said the arms race in east asia can be cause of concern. "it is in the interest of the asian region to prevent china, that has increased its defence budget to 750 per cent since the past two decades, from becoming a regional hegemony. "the continuing arms race in the east asia can be a concern for the regional countries, including india," korean ambassador joon-gyu lee said at an event here. speaking at a conference titled: 'india and korea: new prospects for bilateral co-operation', the ambassador called for strategic partnership between india and south korea in strategic areas. "india and korea share common cultural, political and economic values. right from having a political system based on liberal democracy to the cultural pathos, both the countries have a lot in common. "the strengths of the indian economy like defence, space research and airpower as well as korea's strong shipping industry, can reap combined benefits for both the regions," he said. lee also noted the importance of indo-south korean cooperation in the fields of nuclear energy and maritime security. "both india and korea can exchange help with respect to nuclear energy and share crucial information among each other regarding maritime security. with india emerging as a strong force in saarc and keeping in mind its 'look east policy', there is a need for combining the wisdom of the region and ensure better co-operation among the regional countries. "this unity of thoughts and action is also crucial for stopping the dominant forces," he said. step 1 in a food processor, chop the onions. add the garlic and ginger and process until they are finely chopped. step 2 in a medium, enameled cast-iron casserole, heat the vegetable oil. add the coriander, cumin, cayenne, cinnamon, cloves and cardamom and cook over low heat until fragrant, about 1 minute. add the onion mixture and cook over high heat, stirring occasionally, until the mixture is golden brown, about 6 minutes. add the turmeric and tomato sauce and simmer over moderately high heat, stirring occasionally, until slightly thickened, about 3 minutes. step 3 season the chicken breasts with salt and add them to the casserole. coat the chicken with the sauce. add the water, cover and bring to a boil. simmer over low heat, turning a few times, until the chicken is white throughout, about 10 minutes. season the chicken curry with salt. the san francisco 49ers are expected to add at least one more rookie quarterback to the training camp mix as league sources indicate they will sign former ole miss rebel and oregon ducks qb jeremiah masoli. the san francisco native started his college career at city college of san francisco before transferring to oregon. in 2009 he led the ducks explosive offensive attack with a combined 2,815 total yards of offense and 28 total touchdowns. sign up for our nfl newsletters for more analysis from our 49ers blog unfortunately for masoli he was unable to stay out of trouble as he pled guilty to burglary and was suspended for the entire 2010 season. following the suspension he was cited in june 2010 for marijuana possession and coach chip kelly quickly decided to dismiss him from the team. masoli transferred to ole miss where he threw for 2,039 yards with 14 touchdowns and 13 interceptions. the 49ers have one project qb in colin kaepernick and find themselves possibly in the mix for veteran qb matt hasselbeck. masoli will get some snaps in training camp, but it would be surprising to see him get enough to end up anywhere but the practice squad at best. it's also entirely possible the team considers trying to convert him away from quarterback as he brings fantastic athleticism but not much in the way of passing abilities. for more on jeremiah masoli and the san francisco 49ers, head over to niners nation and sb nation bay area. it was not exactly a perfect night in washington for fourth of july fireworks this year, when fog and rain blanketed the sky and made the independence day show from the national mall less impressive than usual to those who had staked out a spot nearby. but if you had tuned in on monday to watch the fireworks on pbs or watched it on your cellphone, you might have figured the sky was cloudless and the fireworks were crystal clear. you might also have wondered if someone had removed the scaffolding that has been on the capitol dome for two years. but many eagle-eyed viewers suspected something was not quite right, and pbs later admitted as much: it had spliced in firework footage from previous years with live shots. a 14-year-old boy who had been kept at home, reportedly since birth, by his parents in israel has been freed and taken into care, police say. army radio said the boy had told police he was taken out into the building's courtyard in hadera once or twice a month, generally at night. he was also sometimes kept in a makeshift cage outside the apartment. the parents, who have been arrested, say they acted out of concern for the boy's health. some residents had complained to the local municipality about the smell from the apartment. one resident told army radio he had alerted the authorities after seeing the boy "like a zombie in a horror film" through a window. "i saw his eyes and the way he looked, which said 'help me'. so i decided to do something," chiko waknin said. the parents, originally from russia and said to be aged around 60, moved to hadera, north of tel aviv, in 2009 but did not tell the local authorities that they had a child and did not register him for school. a lawyer for the mother was quoted by local media as saying they had wanted to "protect the boy who had health problems". this study looks at the direct experiences of human rights defenders both in the training room and afterwards. it was initially conceived as an opportunity to examine what key factors influence or improve the uptake of digital security practices by human rights defenders in order to increase the long-term effectiveness of trainings. this emerged from a broad awareness within the training community that time and again tool usage and digital security practices by participants either dropped off some months after a training or were not successfully integrated into their working practices to begin with. although many theories around the reasons for this existed, closer examination of why was required. this image and the others used on this site were created as part of a training exercise during the security in context study. participants, who were human rights defenders and advocates, were asked to draw how they perceived the internet. bruce arena isn't wasting any time getting to work as the new head coach of the united states men's national team. according to an article from sports illustrated's grant wahl, arena will carry over the bulk of his staff from the los angeles galaxy. assistant coaches, matt reis and pat noonan, both former new england revolution players, as well as his son kenny arena look set to join bruce on the bench for the usmnt. reis, who holds every goalkeeping record in new england, joined the la galaxy staff in 2014 after retiring as a player to be closer to his family. the former ucla bruin had two caps as a player for the usmnt and was the third keeper on the winning 2005 gold cup team. pat noonan played over 100 games for the revs notching 37 goals in five seasons with the club. he also joined the galaxy after retiring from mls in 2012, playing his last season in los angeles. noonan has 15 caps and one goal for the usmnt and was also a member of the 2005 gold cup winning squad. also according to wahl, tab ramos will likely stay as the usa's under-20 coach and youth technical director. while nothing is official right now, this would still be a pretty cool gig for two beloved and talented former players. marvel comics has recently been in a rough spot, with flagging sales, and interrogated some on the matter in a meeting with retailers, who let out their own grievances in the difficulty lately in selling some of marvel's books. one possible culprit among others got attention: diversity in their titles, and readers turning up their nose at them. this did not sit well with others, the idea that retailers and marvel would blame these books for low sales - and it didn't sit well with me, either. so i've hunkered down and put in the hours researching sales data reaching back over a decade in marvel, and looked for what could possibly be the true culprit in their sales problems. "shut the fuck up, marvel" is a nearly 30k long essay, a spiritual sequel to the problems with comics, a deep dive into the true issues with marvel's economics and business - and how an obsession with short term profit, the constant renumbering and relaunches and events, all compounded by a complete inability to understand basic marketing techniques or outside audiences, has absolutely destroyed the sales stability of many of their former best selling books, all as they condescend to those who criticize them on their stories, or on how they try to sell comics. this is a twine project - simply download the html file and open it in your browser, clicking the blue text to go to the next page. safari users have reported difficulties opening twine, so try other browsers if possible. one of the most pervasive assumptions about human brain evolution is that it involved relative enlargement of the frontal lobes. we show that this assumption is without foundation. analysis of five independent data sets using correctly scaled measures and phylogenetic methods reveals that the size of human frontal lobes, and of specific frontal regions, is as expected relative to the size of other brain structures. recent claims for relative enlargement of human frontal white matter volume, and for relative enlargement shared by all great apes, seem to be mistaken. furthermore, using a recently developed method for detecting shifts in evolutionary rates, we find that the rate of change in relative frontal cortex volume along the phylogenetic branch leading to humans was unremarkable and that other branches showed significantly faster rates of change. although absolute and proportional frontal region size increased rapidly in humans, this change was tightly correlated with corresponding size increases in other areas and whole brain size, and with decreases in frontal neuron densities. the search for the neural basis of human cognitive uniqueness should therefore focus less on the frontal lobes in isolation and more on distributed neural networks. as bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies gain momentum across the globe, europe has been working to become a financial hub for firms working with digital currencies. however, in order to create a safe environment in which consumers feel confident using cryptocurrencies and firms are protected from prosecution, more regulation is necessary. while many bitcoin enthusiasts say that government regulation takes away from the decentralized nature of cryptocurrencies, others believe that by working together with regulators, the new rules will promote adoption without stifling innovation. working together is key the european banking federation, the body that represents the continent's largest banking institutions, released its own vision for cryptocurrency regulations, which calls for digital currency firms and government regulators to work together to create a set of adaptable rules that can grow alongside the industry. the ebf said that the region's existing anti-money laundering rules could be used as the framework for the new laws, but cautioned that rules governing cryptocurrency will need constant evaluation and updating as the industry grows and changes. related link: charlie shrem weighs in on bitcoin from his prison cell a need for blockchain this year several big name financial institutions have come forward with new projects examining blockchain and its application in the traditional finance space. the ledger-like technology could revamp everything from cross border payments to contract agreements, something the ebf also acknowledged in its report. the federation noted that more and more banks were viewing blockchain as an opportunity, and that such developments were important to encourage. while college is a fantastic way to gain knowledge and valuable skills, it's understood that going to a university is expensive, and textbooks can make the bill go even higher. however, you don't have to break the bank to finance a good education; there are plenty of places on the web where you can find and download free online textbooks for nearly any class available. here are sources on the web you can use to find free content for many college classes, all freely available to either download and print offline or view online in your browser. you don't have to necessarily be enrolled in an official college class to take advantage of these resources! if you are looking for opportunities to enrich your knowledge, this is a great way to do that. you can also enroll for free in a huge variety of college classes available from reputable universities all around the world. probe includes "whether any crimes were committed" comey says fbi has "no evidence" barack obama wiretapped donald trump head of nsa says "nonsense" that british intelligence involved in trump wiretapping michael rogers says allegation "frustrates a key ally" donald trump trolls fbi director the director of the fbi took the extraordinary step of publicly confirming the bureau has launched a criminal investigation into suggestions of collusion between russia and donald trump's campaign during last year's presidential election. james comey also shot down claims by president trump that his predecessor barack obama had him wiretapped, saying the fbi had "no information" to support the allegations. it came as admiral mike rogers, director of the national security agency, declared it was "nonsense and ridiculous" for the trump administration to have suggested that gchq was used by mr obama to spy on trump tower in new york. recent images from nasa's earth observatory show stages of the lake's decline disaster began with soviet-era diversion of lake's tributaries for agriculture rising salinity, chemical contamination furthered the calamity the aral sea was once the world's fourth-largest lake. now much of it is a vast toxic desert straddling the borders of kazakhstan and uzbekistan, two former soviet states in central asia. in recently released images, nasa's earth observatory shows the extent of the lake's recession over the past 14 years. the damage reached its peak this year, when the eastern lobe of the south aral sea -- which actually was the center of the original lake -- dried up completely. until the 1960s, the aral sea was fed by two rivers, the amu darya and syr darya, which brought snowmelt from mountains to the southeast, and local rainfall. but in the 1960s the soviet union diverted water from the two rivers into canals to supply agriculture in the region. with the loss of water, the lake began to recede and its salinity levels began to rise. fertilizers and chemical runoff contaminated the lake bed. as the lakebed became exposed, winds blew the contaminated soil onto the surrounding croplands, meaning even more water was needed to make the land suitable for agriculture, according to an earth observatory release. the falling water levels changed the local climate, too. without the lake water to moderate temperatures, winters became colder and summers hotter, the earth observatory said. rita's italian ice is in the process of temporarily phasing out frozen custard due to the national egg shortage stemming from the country's worst avian flu outbreak. customers at more than 600 of the chain's stands, including those in central pennsylvania, will find soft-serve ice cream in exchange for custard. the egg shortage is the result of the avian flu epidemic that has devastated flocks of egg-laying chickens, mostly in the midwest. it has also led to higher egg prices. since december 2014, more than 48 million birds, mostly chickens and turkeys, have been impacted. across the country, restaurants are taking a hit from the egg shortages and higher prices. some restaurants have increased prices on breakfasts. texas-based whataburger revised breakfast hours to compensate for the shortage. rita's spokeswoman ariel vegotsky said never before in the history of rita's has the chain been impacted by a national food shortage. "we are not able to get our egg supplies anymore to supply our 600 stores," she said. she said some stands have already transitioned to serving soft-serve while other stands are in the process of phasing out existing supplies of the custard. eventually, all of the more than 600 rita's stands will serve soft-serve, she said. it's not known how long rita's will serve soft-serve but vegotsky said rita's intends to bring back the custard. luckily, customers have been understanding about not being able to order the custard. "so far, the reaction from guests has been positive. everyone is happy with the product we are serving," she said, adding it tastes similar to the custard. this story has been updated to include more information about the avian flu. australia's decision to ban the use of nicotine in electronic cigarettes has been condemned as "flawed and unethical" by a group of doctors and health experts. last friday the therapeutic goods administration made its final decision to uphold the ban, citing evidence that e-cigarette use caused nicotine addiction and could lead to teenagers becoming hooked on tobacco. the tga has upheld its decision to ban the use of nicotine in electronic cigarettes. a group of 16 doctors, academics and public health advocates had tried to reverse the decision, campaigning on grounds that e-cigarettes were a useful tool to help smokers quit. "it is unethical and unscientific to exempt nicotine in tobacco products and to deny smokers access to a much safer alternative," the group wrote in a submission to the tga last february. why grab the window seat when you could just ride on top of the airplane? adding entertainment value to private jets and airliners, windspeed technologies' new skydeck design concept boasts an in-flight experience like no other. conceptual designs show a teardrop-shaped canopy positioned toward the top rear of the aircraft, which offers passengers a full view of the plane's external environment from semi-external luxury seats. skydeck can be installed in a variety of aircraft, from small executive jets to wide-bodies, and can have one or two seats, accessed by an elevator or stairs. the canopy would be made of high-strength materials, similar to those used in supersonic fighter jets, and designed to withstand all load conditions. an anti-condensation film would also be applied to the surface to ensure clear views. for airlines, windspeed says its concept could be an additional source of revenue, as passengers could pay for the view. once orders have been placed for the new design, skydeck will be delivered within 18 months. professional ear cleaning at home - invented by a physician, the elephant ear washer bottle system was designed to provide professional level ear wax removal for easy to use in-home usage. eliminate ear wax - ear wax buildup and blockage can cause partial hearing loss and general discomfort, it is even the number one cause of hearing aid failure. the elephant ear washer is a quick, effective treatment for excess ear wax buildup that can be done in-home. easy to use - fill the bottle with an ear cleaning solution, twist on a disposable tip, and squeeze the trigger handle to spray the solution into the ear canal. one handed operation - easily position and operate the elephant ear washer with a single hand, allowing you to use your other hand for an otoscope or other instruments. athletics australia will not consider nominating steeplechaser genevieve lacaze who met the qualifying time for her event barely 24 hours after the sport body's deadline for qualification had expired. aa said in a statement released this afternoon that it would be unfair to other athletes to extend the qualification period to consider lacaze's performance this week. no other runner has been nominated to run the 3000-metre steeplechase at the london games. the athletics australia board met yesterday and considered the case of lacaze who ran an a-qualifying time in the us this week barely 24 hours after the australian team had been announced. "today, the athletics australia board has reiterated the position that the conditions set out in the nomination criteria must stand, and that specifically, no performances achieved outside the qualifying period can be considered for nomination," the statement read. "this decision has been reached because it was felt that to extend the qualifying period would unfairly discriminate against the many athletes who had planned their preparations to achieve their qualifying performances by the specified dates. a judge in argentina has blocked the marriage between a 22-year-old woman and the man who killed her twin sister. edith casas insists victor cingolani did not murder her sister johana, a model with whom he also had a relationship. he is serving 13 years in prison for her 2010 murder. the mother of the identical twins, marcelina orellana, says edith is "psychologically ill". she filed a request for the wedding to be suspended. the mother's lawyer, fabian farias, said edith was "not in full control of her mental faculties" and said her physical and psychological wellbeing were in danger. relatives says edith had changed in the last 10 days, leaving home to live with cingolani's sister and announcing the wedding. "she was living with her parents before that, and no-one could have foreseen such an abrupt change in her behaviour," mr farias told clarin newspaper. the couple had planned to wed on friday at the prison in the southern province of santa cruz, to avoid media attention. but the judge suspended the wedding, adding that he would make a final decision by 31 december on whether cingolani and edith can marry. mysterious death cingolani told argentine media that his relationship with johana was "casual" but that he was "in love" with edith. edith maintains that cingolani was unjustly convicted, saying he is "a guy who would not hurt a fly". the exact circumstances of 19-year-old johana casas' murder, in july 2010, remain a mystery. the model's body was found with two bullet wounds in a field. a second man, marco diaz, johana's boyfriend at the time of her murder, is awaiting trial charged with her murder. airtel over the weekend announced it is offering its postpaid users up to 60gb of free internet data, if they install the company's airtel tv application. to cut the long story short, airtel is offering 10gb of free data per month for six months, making it 60gb of overall free data to users who install its app. in order to claim this free data, airtel postpaid users need to download and open the myairtel app, which now displays a new banner to claim free data. users need to click on the banner and follow the instructions provided on the screen. "the task here is to download the airtel tv apk and install it on your smartphone. if you're successful in doing that, then your free data will be credited to your account in just 24 hours," the company said in its release. the company offers live television service with the airtel tv app. airtel says that the new offer is similar to the airtel monsoon offer, which the company announced three months ago. notably, under the airtel monsoon offer, the company offered 10gb free data to airtel postpaid customers for downloading the airtel tv application. however, airtel monsoon offer was valid only for three months. the newly announced offer from airtel, on the other hand, is valid for six months. airtel says that it will automatically add 10gb free data every month to your postpaid account. while the world premier of "the man of steel" was earlier this week, many will be heading to see the latest superman installment this weekend. if you need to hone up on your superman knowledge the superman almanac for your windows phone that might come in handy. for those with lumia windows phones you have the exclusive man of steel app from nokia that not only highlights the movie but also touches on the history behind superman. the superman almanac is from the developers of the star wars and star trek almanacs and approaches things from more of a reference point of view. the app has a ton of information on the superman universe from full episodes from the 1940's animated series to biographies on your favorite characters. the superman almanac is a very inviting windows phone reference app. following a successful launch in the summer, pixel arts, a non-profit organization based in portland, ore. is planning a winter game design youth camp at the end of the year. the four-day course features hands-on workshops to create tabletop and video games. attendants will be building game worlds using cards, paper, tiles, dice, and tokens as well as submitting design documents through drawings and choose-your-own-adventure program twine. in the summer camp, attendants chose areas of game development that interested them most, including art and animation, computer science and programming and design. many of the volunteers for the camp are being drawn from the portland indie game squad, an open game maker and player community. pixel arts is seeking more subject matter experts and non-experts to volunteer for the camps. founders will lewis and jeffrey sens created pixel arts in june 2013 to "provide a framework for community groups to organize and create local opportunities for safe, intergenerational game education," according to the organization's official website. another camp is being organized for next summer. skateboarders and police have clashed in the us city of san francisco during an informal "hill bombing" competition, reports say. footage show a skateboarder and an officer colliding, sending the skateboarder flying into a police car. skateboarders threw bottles at police in riot gear but no arrests were made, the la times said. two skateboarders and the police officer were taken to hospital, a police spokeswoman said. there were no details about their condition. a crowd of several hundred people had gathered to watch the skateboarders descend a steep hill in dolores park in the city's mission district. media playback is unsupported on your device media caption police in riot gear were called some reports say the emergency services were called when a skateboarder fell at speed but others say residents were complaining that their street had been taken over. after police arrived, witnesses said an officer intentionally leaned in to clip a speeding skateboarder with his shoulder, sparking anger among onlookers. however the san francisco chronicle quoted a police officer as saying the collision had been an accident. the confrontation lasted at least an hour. a police vehicle had a window broken and two vehicles were tagged with graffiti during the stand-off, a spokeswoman said. more than 15,000 people were left homeless and seven were injured by an overnight fire that struck a slum area in the philippine capital manila, fire officials said wednesday. the fire started tuesday evening in a shanty house in the slum district of tondo, senior superintendent wilfredo tiu, a regional chief of the bureau of fire protection said. the fire destroyed 1,200 shanty houses before it was put out wednesday morning after raging for 10 hours. seven residents were injured as they tried to save their personal belongings before fleeing the fire, he added. three evacuation centers were opened, and food and water are being provided to the 3,000 families who lost their homes, said welfare officer regina jane mata. but hours after the blaze was put out, many of the people were still huddled on a nearby road with their belongings, including clothes and even washing machines and electric fans. the fire snarled traffic, blocking delivery trucks going to and from the port. investigators were still determining what caused the blaze , but past incidents have been blamed on faulty electrical wiring since many of the houses in the slum area have illegal connections. a series of blasts disrupted a procession by shiite muslims in dhaka, the capital, killing at least one person and wounding dozens, some seriously, early saturday during an event on the holy day of ashura, the police said. the blasts were caused by improvised explosive devices, the police said, and it was unclear who carried out the attack. at least 10 of the wounded were admitted to dhaka medical college hospital, according to a hospital official. attacks on the shiite minority have been rare in bangladesh, which is a predominantly sunni muslim country. but in recent weeks, the islamic state group claimed responsibility for the shooting deaths of an italian aid worker and a japanese man in the country, and in the past year there have been several attacks on secular bloggers. the making of ireland by james lydon provides an accessible history of ireland from the earliest times. james lydon recounts, in colourful detail, the waves of settlers, missionaries and invaders which have come to ireland since pre-history and offers a long perspective on irish history right up to the present time. this comprehensive survey includes discussion of the arrival of st. patrick in the fifth century and henry ii in the twelfth, as well as that of numerous soldiers, traders and craftsmen through the ages. the author explores how these settlers have shaped the political and cultural climate of ireland today. james lydon charts the changing racial mix of ireland through the ages which shaped the irish nation. the author also follows ireland's long and troubled entanglement with england from its beginning many centuries ago. the making of ireland offers a complete history in one volume. through a predominantly political narrative, james lydon provides a coherent and readable introduction to this vital complex history. ben murdoch-masila could be on his way back to australia after his blockbusting world cup form caught the attention of several nrl clubs. the salford forward has been a standout coming off the bench for tonga, reproducing the form that earned him a spot in the super league dream team. the gold coast are one club to take notice after several standout world cup performances, raising the prospect of "bmm" adding to his 58 nrl appearances for penrith and wests tigers. new lease of life: tongan forward ben murdoch-masila. credit:aap murdoch-masila will have another opportunity to impress when tonga take on england at mt smart stadium on saturday, with the winner earning a world cup final berth. "i have spoken to my partner and if the right nrl opportunity presented itself to us, we would take it with both hands," he said. the tel aviv municipal building adorned itself with the egyptian flag at 11:00pm saturday evening in solidarity with the egyptian people and coptic christians following a deadly shooting attack that claimed the lives of 29 people. follow ynetnews on facebook and twitter despite colored lights illuminating the building in solidarity with various causes such as gay pride or national flags of countries following terrorist attacks, this is the first time the flag of an arab nation will appear on the tel aviv landmark. the egyptian flag on friday, masked gunmen attacked dozens of copts on their way to a monastery in the minya province, south of cairo. the arab world strongly condemned the attack and many countries sent their condolences to egypt. isis later claimed responsibility for the attack saying that more than 31 "crusaders" were killed and another 24 wounded in addition to having their vehicles torched. coptic christians, who make up about 10 percent of egypt's population of 92 million, have been the subject of a series of deadly attacks in recent months, as isis and other jihadist organizations are solidifying their presence in sinai. - there was a moving tribute wednesday morning to a young woman who died while serving her country. members of the "military escort team" led the procession as the casket carrying 23-year-old danyelle luckey arrived at solomon temple missionary baptist church. a couple hundred people were on hand for her funeral saying goodbye to the pittsburg native who joined the navy to make a better life for herself and her family. she was planning to save money to send her young nephew to college. as the family arrived at the church, luckey's father was in uniform. not his - he had on his daughter's fatigues as a touching way to honor her service. luckey died while serving on board an aircraft carrier -- traveling through the philippine sea. she started feeling sick one day, went to rest in her bunk, and never woke up. the navy says she suffered cardiac arrest, but her death is still under investigation. the family says an autopsy is being performed on luckey and the results should be available in two to three weeks. your spare blanket or stored winter clothing takes up much more closet space than necessary. along with the actual fibers of the fabric, the items are full of extra air that fills them out and gives them bulk. vacuum-sealing your belongings sucks the air out of them and reduces them to their minimum sizes, without damage. the expensive storage bags marketed for this aren't necessary. you can seal your belongings, protect them from the elements and free up closet or suitcase space using household items you already have. fold the clothes, blankets other items you plan to store. put them neatly inside a sturdy trash bag. settle the folded items flat on the bottom of the bag so the opening at the top faces straight up. video of the day insert the hose attachment of a vacuum cleaner into the bag and hold the bag closed around the nozzle with one hand. pull the nozzle up slowly until only a few inches of hose remain inside the bag. pull a rubber band over the outside end of the attachment and secure the bag tightly around the hose. fit the free end of the hose onto a vacuum cleaner. with one hand, bunch the material of the bag up around the attachment slightly, so the nozzle isn't touching any of the plastic and there's a little space around it. switch the vacuum on, using its lowest setting. continue to hold the plastic away from the nozzle as the vacuum sucks all of the air out of the bag. when the bag shrinks as much as possible, release the plastic and allow the vacuum to remove the last bit of air from the top of the bag. turn the vacuum off and immediately remove the nozzle, keeping the rubber band in place. add an extra twist or two to the band to tighten it if necessary. repeat the process with any remaining bags. perhaps the best-known maritime tragedy of all time, the rms titanic was a passenger liner that sank in the north atlantic ocean on april 15, 1912, after colliding with an iceberg during her maiden voyage from southampton, uk to new york city, us. the sinking of titanic caused the deaths of 1,514 people in the third deadliest non-military maritime disaster in history. on april 14, 1912, four days into the crossing and about 375 miles south of newfoundland, she hit an iceberg at 11:40 pm. the collision opened five of her sixteen watertight compartments to the sea. over the next two and a half hours, the ship gradually filled with water and sank. passengers and some crew members were evacuated in lifeboats, many of which were launched only partly filled. just before 2:20 am, the titanic broke up and sank bow-first with over a thousand people still on board. those in the water died within minutes from hypothermia caused by immersion in the freezing ocean. the 710 survivors were taken aboard from the lifeboats by the rms carpathia a few hours later. the first stage of a project to create wider bike lanes and reduce vehicle lanes on folsom street through boulder is complete. the lane-reallocation project, originally dubbed "right-sizing" by boulder transportation planners, is a pilot project to see whether more people will ride their bikes if the city puts in wider, protected bike lanes and to determine the effect on vehicle travel times and accidents of going to one lane of travel in each direction with a center turn lane. the reduced vehicle lanes are necessary to make room for the wider bike lanes, but transportation planners believe the center turn lane will reduce accidents and keep the impact on travel times small, as cars won't rear-end or back up behind cars waiting to turn left. work began on folsom street last week, and new bike lanes with a striped buffer have been installed from valmont road to canyon boulevard. there is now one lane in each direction and a center turn lane rather than two lanes in each direction. this week, green markings in the buffer zone and flexible bollards to further mark the bike lane will be installed. the city plans to install similar street treatments on iris avenue in late august, with work on 63rd street likely starting in september. pakistan's military says it has killed at least 910 suspected militants since launching an offensive in the tribal area of north waziristan in june. some 82 soldiers had died fighting the insurgents there and in raids across the country, the statement said. the army said the main towns in north waziristan, which had been a taliban stronghold, were now under its control. media access is blocked in tribal areas near the afghan border and there is no independent confirmation of the claims. the army statement was released amid mounting anti-government protests in the capital. the military says it is not taking sides in the crisis. the long-awaited offensive against the pakistani taliban finally began after the collapse of peace talks between the militants and the government. "so far, security forces have cleared major towns of miranshah, mir ali, datta khel, boya and degan in north waziristan, which were considered strongholds of terrorists," the military statement said. it said 42 of the militants killed since june had died in intelligence-led operations across the country. more than 100 others had been captured. the army gave no details of any civilian casualties. residents who fled the fighting say there have been many. about 800,000 people have been forced to leave their homes in north waziristan since june. militant attacks inside pakistan have fallen sharply since the offensive began, but no high-profile militant leader is known to have been caught so far. the military conceded in july that many might have slipped out of north waziristan after learning in advance of the impending military action. nile ranger: set for leeds chance leeds united are ready to offer nile ranger the chance to train with the club, sky sports understands. the 23-year-old is currently a free agent after leaving swindon town at the end of last season, mainly due to disciplinary problems and off-field issues. the former newcastle united striker has been dogged by controversy throughout his career after making his professional debut five years ago. but sky sources have been told that leeds head coach dave hockaday and his assistant junior lewis are ready to take a look a ranger in the coming weeks with a view to possibly signing him. ranger, who is a former england youth international, scored seven times in 19 appearances for swindon last season. we always love a cloud with a name. this thunderstorm complex is well known by scientists interested in tropical meteorology, as it forms on a daily basis at certain times of year over the tiwi islands, off the north coast of australia. it forms on almost a daily basis during the transitional months of nov-dec and feb-march, which makes it a perfect subject for meteorologists studying the development of cumulonimbus clouds. mighty thunderclouds like this are estimated to harness the power of ten hiroshima-sized bombs. stretching up to 20km into the atmosphere, it is clearly visible from darwin, over 100km away. we are very pleased that such an awe-inspiring and ferocious a monster as this has been christened by the locals with a name like hector. many thanks to tim garrett for sending the photos in. animata is an open source real-time animation software, designed to create animations, interactive background projections for concerts, theatre and dance performances. the peculiarity of the software is that the animation - the movement of the puppets, the changes of the background - is generated in real-time, making continuous interaction possible. this ability also permits that physical sensors, cameras or other environmental variables can be attached to the animation of characters, creating a cartoon reacting to its environment. for example, it is quite simple to create a virtual puppet band reacting to live audio input, or set up a scene of drawn characters controlled by the movement of dancers. in contrast with the traditional 3d animation programs, creating characters in animata is quite simple and takes only a few minutes. on the basis of the still images, which serve as the skeleton of the puppets, we produce a network of triangles, some parts of which we link with the bone structure. the movement of the bones is based on a physical model, which allows the characters to be easily moved. after a several year hiatus, the african-american parade of connecticut returned on saturday. the mood was upbeat, with most participants and viewers keeping positive. the small exception was some negative chanting heard from one of the political campaigns, which seemed entirely out of place for the tone of the parade. the staging area was only one block, from walnut to albany on edwards. vehicles were parked on the parade route, but police did pause motor vehicle traffic while the action was happening. the parade went from the corner of edwards and albany, up the avenue, turning down woodland, and ending in keney park, where family day activities were taking place all weekend. among those participating: weaver high cheerleaders, religious organizations, a ski club, a motorcycle club, friends of keney park, naacp, those marking the 20th anniversary of the million man march, and a variety of campaigning politicians. twelve minutes after taking off from new york's jfk airport on july 17th, 1996, trans world airlines flight 800 exploded, killing all 230 people on board. now, almost 18 years after the boeing 747 crashed, the national transportation safety board has denied a petition that would see it reconsidering its findings, drawn up by people who believe the plane was the target of terrorism, missiles, or even a secret microwave weapon. some think the plane was destroyed by missiles the fbi and the ntsb conducted lengthy investigations into the crash of twa flight 800 at the time of its detonation, eventually determining that the explosion was likely caused by the ignition of fuel in the plane's center wing fuel tank. but circumstantial evidence, interviews with accident investigators, and apparent discrepancies in the findings of both agencies have stoked conspiracy theories about the flight's fate for years. some have suggested the plane was blown out of the sky by three missiles, while others say the explosion was caused by a terrorist bomb on board the plane. a more outlandish hypothesis suggests flight 800 was accidentally targeted by a microwave weapon operated by the us navy. a documentary that looked closely at these alternate theories aired on us tv last year. twa flight 800 used three "smoking guns" to question the ntsb and fbi's official stances on the crash, but failed to adequately justify some of the alternate theories it raised. there was some hope that the petition may lend these hypotheses some legitimacy, but the ntsb's decision means that for now at least, the conspiracy theories around twa flight 800 will remain theories. the musty smell is most likely cellulose decay. since the mid-19th century, when papermakers began using groundwood pulp in place of cotton or linen, most paper has contained an unstable compound called lignin, which breaks down into acids and makes paper very brittle. since 2001, the library of congress has treated at least 250,000 books every year with magnesium oxide. the chemical deacidifies paper and slows decay. lorraine gibson, a chemist at the university of strathclyde in scotland, runs a project called heritage smells that will identify decay in its earliest stages. she is working on a handheld mass spectrometer, a sort of artificial nose that locates the molecules that cause the musty smell. molecules move down a flight tube, and the movement through the tube helps identify the mass of the molecule. once researchers have identified the molecules that speed decay, they can work to stop it. this article originally appeared in the january 2012 issue of popular science magazine. non-league woking embarrassed league one side bury by winning 3-0 at gigg lane to reach the fa cup second round. the national league outfit stunned the hosts with a 30th-minute opener by regan charles-cook. and the shakers, bottom of the third tier, could not fight back as inih effiong and substitute jamie philpot pounced late on to seal the upset. bury were unbeaten in three games under caretaker boss ryan lowe and almost took a third-minute lead as michael smith fired against the post from jay o'shea's lay-off. nathan baxter then denied smith before having to parry a low cross by o'shea. woking gave the hosts a warning as kane ferdinand sidefooted wide from matt young's cut-back. greg leigh then twice went close for bury but the visitors stunned them on the break to open the scoring as effiong found joe ward on the left, and his low cross was perfect for charles-cook to sidefoot home. the shakers almost hit back as smith's header clipped the crossbar from a phil edwards cross, before o'shea went close either side of half-time. but the home fans vented their fury towards the bury players after effiong curled in his first goal in 13 games on 71 minutes. chez isaac then jinked through a tame home defence for philpot to complete the upset on 86 minutes and set up a home tie for the cards against either tranmere or peterborough. report supplied by the press association. 5 live investigates presenter adrian goldberg explains the new measures of enforcement laid out in the proposed united states sopa bill - and compares it to existing anti-piracy measures already operating in the uk. joining the discussion is alexis ohanian, co-founder of the social news website, reddit, which has been at the forefront of the anti-sopa campaign, having recently gone 'black' alongside websites such as wikipedia, in protest of the bill. speaking in support of sopa, christopher marcich, president and managing-director of the motion picture association, europe puts forward why the film industry is behind the proposed legislation. mr ohanian says sopa will restrict the creativity and development of the us technology industry and companies such as spotify, which is revolutionising the music industry, would never get off-the-ground should sopa be passed into law. in response, mr marcich argues there are also tech companies, such as the recently shutdown megaupload which he claims offer nothing in terms of creativity, and simply profit from the work of others. this interview was first broadcast on sunday, 22 january 2012 on 5 live investigates. you can listen to the full programme online by downloading the 5 live investigates podcast. inbox cube is a new email client for iphone that aims to make email more of a visual experience than a plain text one. while you have classic email views that show the inboxes we've all grown accustomed to, you can also view and sort all your attachments and files to find what you need by looking, not reading. as of now, inbox cube supports gmail, icloud, yahoo and aol mail. once you've configured your email accounts, you're taken to the main email view of inbox cube. this view is the traditional email inbox that we've all become accustomed to. the other views are the ones that make inbox cube unique from other mail clients. the main two are attachments and contacts. attachments feeds in all attachments in image form. you can sort them by type at the top in order to narrow results. the contacts tab smartly picks out who you contact via email the most. you can also view all contacts or add contacts to your favorites within inbox cube. to add a favorite, just hold your finger down on a contact to bring up the menu. when it comes to the attachments section of inbox cube, the first time you search, it can take a significant amount of time to find and load all your attachments so i'd highly suggest doing it over a wifi network. i'm an email hoarder and pretty much archive almost everything instead of throwing it away. if it isn't in archive, it's filed away in a folder somewhere. if you've got less of an issue saving emails, inbox cube won't take as long to load and sort all your attachments. the cotton ball diet is a fad diet that involves consuming cotton balls dipped in liquids such as juices or smoothies . the cotton is intended to make a person's stomach feel full without them gaining weight. the diet has been repeatedly condemned as dangerous. the cotton balls can cause blockages in the digestive system. blockage in the intestines could result in dehydration, death of the gastrointestinal tract and damage to internal organs. the diet will also result in a nutrition disorder. the diet can also cause choking because the cotton balls cannot be broken down and must be eaten whole. most cotton balls are made from bleached polyester rather than cotton, and toxins in the synthetic ingredients of cotton balls can build up over time and cause organ damage. it just wouldn't be an oakland raiders game without an ugly loss and a fight. cincinnati bengals tackle andrew whitworth had a problem with lamar houston for tossing quarterback andy dalton to the ground on a play in the fourth quarter. houston gave whitworth a headbutt as the tackle approached him, setting off the scrum. tommy kelly came off the bench as the shoving started, and fought his way into the middle of the pile. kelly ripped his helmet off and joined in the fun. in the end, it was more wrestling match than fight, something recalling a junior high hallway tussle as opposed to a bench-clearing brawl. houston, kelly and whitworth were all tossed out of the game for their part in the action. the players can probably expect more punishment from the league in the form of some hefty fines. the raiders, meanwhile, will need to find a way to channel those passions more constructively after losing a fourth consecutive game. burning citronella candles is an effective way to get rid of mosquitoes outdoors, but they may be too strong to burn indoors, especially for people with breathing issues. you also don't want to spray toxic, chemical-laden mosquito repellents inside your home. for a more natural alternative, fill an oil burner with a carrier oil, such as almond or jojoba, and add a few drops of essential oils like peppermint, eucalyptus and lemon eucalyptus. another natural solution is to burn lavender oil near windows, doors or any other mosquito access points to discourage them from entering your home or lingering once in. another way to control indoor mosquitoes is to squirt a few drops of citrus-scented dish soap into small bowls or saucers and place them where you see the pests, such as your kitchen, bathroom or screened-in porch. this method works as well as burning citronella candles. how did we get into this bind about drugs? smoking cigarettes is enjoyed by a lot of people but it is very harmful to smokers and to others. we know we cannot eliminate smoking by making it a crime. so we reduce the harm by regulating sale and by other measures, such as public campaigns to persuade people to give up smoking, restrictions on advertising, treatment for addiction and so on. the war on drugs is hugely expensive, irrational and has adverse consequences. alcohol is also enjoyed by a lot of people but it causes serious harm to some individuals, to their families and to others. that includes a lot of violence. we know we cannot eliminate alcohol by making drinking a crime. they tried that in the united states under prohibition and it did not work. so we reduce the harm caused by alcohol by regulating sale and by other measures. gambling is enjoyed by a lot of people. it also causes serious harm to some individuals and to their families. we know we cannot eliminate gambling by making it a crime. so we reduce the harm by regulating gambling and by other measures. the idea of a physical paypal store may seem somewhat counterintuitive, but that's exactly what the company is planning to open next month, in manhattan. as techcrunch recently revealed, the forthcoming pop-up store is slated to open its doors on november 1st, as part of a campaign designed to promote paypal's new slate of in-store technologies. located at 174 hudson street in tribeca, the outlet will also sport a large qr code on its exterior, which passers-by can scan with their smartphones to find more information on the company's new mobile payment services. inside, merchants will be able to better familiarize themselves with paypal's commercial offerings, which include location-based promotions, cross-device payment services and real-time inventory checks, among others. the store will be open for about three and a half months, and paypal's new features should be making their way to physical retailers in the near future. no word yet on specific partnerships, though the company is expected to announce them soon. poor smackdown crowd the crowd of 4,000 on the september 29th episode of smackdown was a poor crowd for a usually good draw in albany. wwe was upgrading fans to fill the seats in front of the camera and the upper deck had a tarp over it. update: ken aubin, wrestlezone fan who attended the event, also noticed that two lower sections of the arena had tarp over them wwe going through unusual markets wwe is planning to do house shows in oslo, norway and stockholm during the european tour in april. they usually do not run in these markets because they are not on tv in these markets. but the wwe is working to get on tv in both countries. ufc tv is very successful in both markets. manchester united midfielder marouane fellaini had to be substituted after only 29 minutes of belgium's thrilling victory over bosnia-herzegovina. fellaini, who has started united's past three premier league games, appeared to suffer a knee injury. belgium manager roberto martinez said that he feared the 29-year-old had suffered ligament damage. yannick carrasco's goal sealed victory for belgium, who have already qualified for next year's world cup. belgium had won group h but this win meant bosnia-herzegovina gave up second place to greece, who have a chance of reaching the play-offs as one of the best eight runners-up. they will have to beat gibraltar on tuesday and hope that results in other groups go their way. belgium were given the lead by thomas meunier, only for the hosts to hit back through haris medunjanin and edin visca. chelsea's michy batshuayi and tottenham's jan vertonghen restored belgium's advantage, only for dario dumic to pull bosnia-herzegovina level in the 82nd minute. but, a minute later, carrasco gave belgium the points. with the arrival of europeans, indigenous people were stripped of their culture in a way that continues to cause mental health issues, suicide, and alcohol abuse. in the northern territory, first australians make up 86 percent of the prison population. many are just incarcerated over unpaid fines, missed court dates, or traffic violations. in darwin, this group are often long grassers; a transient population of mainly indigenous people who travel in from remote communities and get stuck in a cycle of homelessness, alcoholism, and incarceration. darwin's traditional owners, larrakia nation, are trying to combat these issues with a range of social services including night patrols. we rode along to see how they help people home, assist the homeless, and ultimately keep aboriginal people out of the justice system. this documentary is part two of over represented, our series on indigenous incarceration. for the other parts, watch briggs - live at juvie and barred calls. you can also check out the incarceration issue, a special edition from vice. lucknow: uttar pradesh chief minister yogi adityanath on wednesday issued instructions to all district magistrates to ensure proper arrangements for poor, destitute and homeless in the cold wave and inclement weather conditions sweeping the state for the past few days. he said that officials should also monitor the relief measures in a sustained manner and warned them not to be callous in this regard. a state government spokesman said in pursuance of the instructions of the chief minister, relief measures against cold weather were being rolled out in all the districts. under these measures, night shelters have been established, bonfires lit up and free blankets distributed to the poor and needy. the spokesman further said that till wednesday, 23,657 bonfires had been lit across the state, 1,64,276 free blankets distributed to the needy and 708-night shelters had been established in the state. note: if the search results come back too harsh or too soft pick a zipcode nearby your town that better represents your garden, landscape or restoration. how often and how long you water during each season after the first year? how often do you water in spring? never once a day twice a week once a week once every two weeks once a month how long do you water in spring? 10 minutes 15 minutes 30 minutes 1 hour 2 hours 4 hours how often do you water in summer? never once a day twice a week once a week once every two weeks once a month how long do you water in summer? 10 minutes 15 minutes 30 minutes 1 hour 2 hours 4 hours how often do you water in fall? never once a day twice a week once a week once every two weeks once a month how long do you water in fall? 10 minutes 15 minutes 30 minutes 1 hour 2 hours 4 hours how often do you water in winter? never once a day twice a week once a week once every two weeks once a month how long do you water in winter? 10 minutes 15 minutes 30 minutes 1 hour 2 hours 4 hours note: follow the planting instructions on our other web site for the first year's watering. the entries below need to be based off the following years and will dramatically change your results. barstow or eureka, you're changing the ecology with water. play with the watering season, how often you water, and the length of watering. the list will be as different as sun and shade, sand or clay. here's a special treat for all of you. many times people have requested that i do a my little mages of sombra and many times i have declined the task on the grounds that i didn't think there was much i could do with sombra that hasn't already been done with humanized versions of him before. but then i thought of a unique take that i could do: combine his smoke form with his solid form. in this universe, sombra has indeed been transformed into the smoke monster, but he has willed himself into a human shape to embody a suit of armor. i would like to say that i was also unwilling to draw mages sombra because i am not keen on drawing big medieval suits of armor. it's getting everything to be symmetrical and properly 3 dimensional that's the hard part. get the latest news and videos for this game daily, no spam, no fuss. despite reported power struggles between metal gear solid creator hideo kojima and publisher konami, the long-in-development metal gear solid movie is indeed moving forward. hollywood news site deadline reports that british writer jay basu has inked a deal with sony pictures to write the upcoming film adaptation of konami's stealth-action series. basu was on the writing team for 2014's monsters: dark continent and 2012's fast girls. deadline also reports that basu, a "hot british writer," has been tapped by universal pictures to help re-launch some of the company's monster movie franchises, including dracula, frankenstein, and the mummy. as was previously announced, the kings of summer director jordan vogt-roberts is on-board to direct the upcoming metal gear solid movie. there's no word yet on plot or who will play solid snake. kojima said he was previously eyeing x-men star hugh jackman for the role, but it was later decided to cast a unspecified newcomer instead. kojima himself was at one time working on the metal gear solid movie in a supervisory role, though it's unclear if recent developments have affected that arrangement. the metal gear solid movie is not the only movie based on a video game in the works. ubisoft is currently working on a total of six movies, including features based on assassin's creed, splinter cell, and watch dogs. in addition, movies based on warcraft, the last of us, temple run, minecraft, and angry birds are on the way. the most recent video game movie was last year's need for speed, which starred breaking bad's aaron paul. the movie did not win over critics, but it was a commercial success. the next metal gear solid game is the upcoming open-world title metal gear solid: the phantom pain, a sequel to march 2014's metal gear solid: ground zeroes. the game is due out worldwide for consoles on september 1, while the pc edition is coming two weeks later. officials say a norovirus has been confirmed as the cause of a stomach illness that sickened more than 200 students at a pennsylvania college last week. ursinus college said the montgomery county health department on monday confirmed cases of norovirus, a contagious virus that causes gastroenteritis or inflammation of the stomach and intestines. classes resumed monday after being canceled thursday afternoon and friday. events during the weekend also were canceled. officials said there had been a significant decrease in the number of students reporting symptoms since the first reports came in tuesday morning. twenty-two students were treated at hospitals last week, but none were admitted. the school's dining hall was closed but reopened after an inspection. ursinus said "aggressive cleaning, sanitizing and disinfecting efforts" will continue through the week. from ontario to orlando, cyle larin and richie laryea are living the dream. best friends since they were nine years old, the canadian duo played together with youth club sigma fc growing up, then went their separate ways for college, with larin heading to uconn and laryea attending akron. larin, of course, turned pro last year, getting taken by orlando with the no. 1 overall selection in the 2015 superdraft before scoring 17 goals to smash the mls rookie record and take home rookie of the year honors. the 21-year-old was gearing up for his sophomore campaign this january when he got a serious gift from ocsc, who took laryea with the seventh overall selection in the superdraft, reuniting the canadian international with his old buddy from toronto. the two are now building their careers together. they share an apartment outside orlando, with laryea keeping larin grounded as he builds on his wildly successful rookie year and larin helping laryea along as he looks to parlay his play with orlando city b into a chance with the lions' first-team. the latest episode of mls insider presented by adidas, cyle and richie, takes a look at larin and laryea, chronicling their history, friendship and future as they strive for success in orlando. brentford have almost completed the signing of blues midfielder josh mceachran on a 4 year deal. the 22 year old had a medical on friday and then will complete the move in the next couple of days. head coach, marinus dijkhuizen will be very familiar with the player after his time at vitesse last year. mceachran was a very hot prospect just a few years ago at chelsea. many people expected him to break into the first team after he played a key role in england winning the european championships. he is a versatile midfielder who controls the game and can play in an attacking role or in a more defensive one. he has spent much of the last few years on loan around the place. he has played at swansea, boro, watford and wigan. after signing bjelland, the capture of mceachran is a real sign of us getting ready for the premier league. essendon has revealed mathew stokes will play his 200th and final game on sunday when the bombers take on the western bulldogs at etihad stadium. coach john worsfold confirmed the news on the club's website with little fanfare on the same week the bombers celebrate adam cooney's 250th game. stokes, 31, was coaxed into one last year as a top-up player, after 12 bombers were handed year-long doping bans. the two-time premiership player retired after being delisted by geelong at the end of last season, but along with long-time teammate james kelly, decided to join essendon. stokes lined up in 10 matches this season and averaged 18 disposals per game, with hamstring and groin injuries limiting him. he has kicked 209 goals from 199 games and was a member of the cats' 2007 and '11 premiership sides. miami marlins owner jeffrey loria is reportedly a candidate to serve as the ambassador to france under president trump. white house chief of staff reince priebus is pushing for loria to get the position, according to the new york post. priebus is also reportedly advocating for gop activist georgette mosbacher to serve as ambassador to luxembourg; financier lew eisenberg for ambassador to italy; and investor duke buchan for ambassador to spain. according to a report earlier this month, the kushner real estate family, led by the brother of trump's son-in-law, jared, are in talks with loria to buy the baseball team. joshua kushner, jared's brother, and his brother-in-law, joseph meyer, have been pursuing the marlins for months, the new york times reported. advertisement jared kushner is ivanka trump's husband and a senior white house adviser. the associated press reported earlier this month that the marlins owner has a preliminary agreement to sell his team to a new york businessman. according to the new york times, jared kushner and his father, charles kushner, are not participating in the effort. once upon a time, there were five crazy people, and they poisoned the 21st century. now they have to deal with the corrosion to try and save us all from a world becoming too weird to support human life. injection is the new ongoing series created by the acclaimed creative team of moon knight. it is science fiction, tales of horror, strange crime fiction, techno-thriller, and ghost story all at the same time. a serialized sequence of graphic novels about how loud and strange the world is getting, about the wild future and the haunted past all crashing into the present day at once, and about five eccentric geniuses dealing with the paranormal and numinous as well as the growing weight of what they did to the planet with the injection. a california highway patrol officer could face "potentially serious charges" stemming from an incident caught on video where he is seen throwing a barrage of punches at a homeless woman he pinned to the ground. officer daniel andrew was recorded on july 1 repeatedly punching marlene pinnock with several blows to her head in a video made by a passing motorist on an onramp to the 10 freeway. the video was uploaded to youtube where it caught the attention of the public and sparked outrage. marlene pinnock and her family have both called for the officer to be punished, calling it a clear case of police brutality. an investigation conducted and recently concluded by the chp has been forwarded to the district attorney's office, and andrew could very well be facing criminal charges, according to a press release. pinnock has since sued the chp over the incident. in his own arrest report the officer said he was trying to protect pinnock from wandering into the freeway, according to the la times. the chp has revoked andrew's peace officer duties, and has also put him on administrative time off after moving him to desk duty after the incident. with the case now in the hands of the district attorney's office, it is now up to the da to decide whether or not to press criminal charges. the chp's own internal investigation remains ongoing. metro has expressed its regret after a 72-year-old grandmother, who had no more than 10 seconds to load her two small grandchildren and bags onto a train, was left stranded on the platform while the children were carried away without her. on november 3, clare hassard, 72, was at southern cross station, attempting to board a frankston-bound train with her granddaughters, aged four and five, when the doors closed while she bent down to pick up her luggage. a metro investigation of the incident using cctv footage found less than 11 seconds elapsed between the last passenger exiting the door ms hassard and her grandchildren were entering and the driver closing the train doors. the train doors were open for 18 seconds in total, and it took 13 seconds for the doorway to clear and for ms hassard to help the children on board. she then walked to the yellow safety line to collect her bag, but within five seconds the doors had closed, and three seconds later the train departed. another adult on the train accompanied the children to flinders street station, where the family was reunited with the assistance of metro staff. metro took until friday, 26 days, to respond to a complaint by ms hassard's son anthony ryan, who is also the children's father. a senior al-qaeda leader has been targeted by a us drone strike in north eastern afghanistan, us military officials say. farouq al-qahtani, the group's leader in the area, is believed to have been killed on sunday, officials speaking on condition of anonymity said. his deputy was also targeted in a separate strike, nbc news reports. the strikes in kunar province have not been publicly confirmed and the results are still being assessed. saudi-born al-qahtani, a qatari national, was placed on a us list of most wanted terrorists in february. he has been accused of involvement in plots targeting europe and the us. afghan government spokesman abdul ghani mosamem said that 15 insurgents were killed in sunday's operation, including two arabs and a number of pakistani taliban fighters. a true entertainer like national treasure liza minnelli will not let a simple storm keep her away from her audience. so the tech-savvy minnelli-ial took a 200-mile uber ride to wilmington, north carolina, for a sold-out show after her flight had to turn back, according to the bbc. her driver was a former olympian, of course, because this is liza and everything must be exceptional. ahmed el-awady played handball for egypt in the 1992 and 1996 summer games. it's nice to think about the pair hitting it off, singing show tunes together and stopping at a rest stop for cheetos and snapple. when they hit traffic, they probably played games like 20 questions. there is definitely a road trip movie to be made. minnelli has not disclosed her uber rating. japanese midfielder keisuke honda wants to fight for a place at ac milan despite the imminent arrival of kevin-prince boateng. honda, 29, has rejected a move away from the club as he pushes for competition with former schalke outcast boateng. boateng has been heavily linked with a move to england with west ham and everton reported to be interested. but the japanese midfielder has pledged his future to the rossoneri, paving the way for him to fight for a place with the ghana international. boateng is expected to sign a permanent deal with ac milan in january after impressing during a trial period. it was widely reported the arrival of boateng would signal the end of the asian star but he has insisted he will stay with milan and fight for a starting role. three-star miami cornerback sheldrick redwine withdrew his commitment to louisville on tuesday night. he completed an official visit to u of l two days ago as the cardinals had sought to firm up what has been a shaky commitment from the start. on the day redwine committed three weeks ago, he said he would keep the recruiting process open and still visit the university of texas, which he's scheduled to see this weekend. since he made the u of l pledge, auburn has emerged as a top contender, and redwine visited there two weekends ago. auburn already flipped a cornerback pledge from the university of kentucky this week in jeremiah dinson of hialeah, fla. without redwine, the cardinals now have 23 commitments in the 2015 class. if u of l is to sign a new cornerback, a candidate would be jacksonville speedster javarius davis, who officially visited over the weekend. however, davis, too, has been strongly considering auburn, and the tigers may win out again. u of l hosted orlando cornerback jalen julius on a visit in early december and looked well-positioned with him initially, but ole miss is now a strong contender. the cards have also shown some interest in junior-college all-america cornerback treston decoud, but he said tuesday night that he hasn't received an offer from u of l and has no current plans to visit. redwine is a former teammate at killian high school of u of l cornerback trumaine washington. the 120w aci off-road led light bar has a dozen powerful leds that allow you to see much more than with headlights alone. this light bar features a combo beam pattern with a total of 10,800 lumens in a slim light bar package. the 10 leds in the center produce a 8-degree spot beam with 9,000 raw lumens to light up the path ahead. the two leds on the ends have diffusing lenses to send out a 90-degree flood pattern with 1,800 additional lumens to get rid of tunnel vision. the light bar is constructed with a die-cast aluminum housing and stainless-steel hardware. sliding tracks allow for adjustable mounting and make it easy to install on the front of a pickup, atv, boat or other vehicle. it's waterproof, shock resistant and includes a 39" 12-gauge lead wire with a dt connector and a pigtail connector to set up true plug-and-play lighting on your rig. a valley man is accused of attacking his parents inside and outside their chandler home. according to chandler police, on october 27, james anthony mcpherson, 28, came into the kitchen naked and sat down at the table. his mother left the room and soon heard sounds of arguing and things being broken. authorities say the argument turned physical when mcpherson followed his father into the bedroom. his mother left the house but was caught in the garage and brought back into the home. mcpherson stood in the doorway refusing to let them leave. police reports indicate mcpherson knocked his father to the ground and smashed his head on the kitchen floor. his mother managed to escape and make it to a neighbor's house but was caught before she could ring the doorbell. mcpherson dragged his mother back to the house, pushed her on the floor and held her there. reports indicate mcpherson then attacked his father with a swiffer wet jet, striking him in the eye, and causing him to bleed. on her third escape attempt, his mother found neighbors to assist her. they managed to get her husband out of the home and to a hospital. mcpherson was arrested the next day and reportedly told police that he remembered the fight, but not the details, saying he had been drinking. police say they found an empty whiskey bottle in his room and the house. a number of premier league clubs are tracking french defender sega coulibaly, sky sports understands. coulibaly is highly regarded in france and is rated as one of the best prospects in his homeland after coming through the ranks at rennes. the powerful central defender has represented france at all age levels from u16 to u18s and he has caught the eye for his country. coulibaly was a regular in rennes' reserve team last season and he is expected to break into the first team next season. the likes of newcastle and liverpool are thought to have watched coulibaly and they are keeping tabs on his progress as they weigh up moves to bring him to england. fiorentina and sevilla are also chasing coulibaly and, although rennes are determined to keep the teenager, they are bracing themselves for offers for the defender. generations of chicagoans have enjoyed the many public spaces that make up the city's park district, and fortunately, the library of congress has catalogued decades' worth of images of windy city residents enjoying the great outdoors. chicagoans are proud of their existing public spaces, and beyond excited for the new parks currently in the works. perhaps chicago's best known park, grant park is located in the center of the city and features some of the city's most important tourist destinations. just north of grant park lies lincoln park, another one of chicago's largest and oldest public spaces. even further north is edgewater beach, which was once the destination for the wealthy. grab a seat and take a trip to chicago's past with these 30 images of chicago's great public spaces. explanation:any person who's ever gone to summer camp or watched enough summer camp movies has heard of the classic prank of dunking a sleeping person's hand in water to make them urinate. supposedly, the unconscious sensation of water will stimulate a sleeper's bladder and burst open the embarrassing floodgates. plenty of anecdotal stories claim the myth holds true, but mythbusters jamie hyneman and adam savage decided to take it for a swim themselves. the key to pulling off the prank is ensuring that the person in bed is actually asleep. for that, jamie, adam and crew member matt each took turns getting hooked up to sleep monitoring equipment and catching some z's. jamie couldn't settle down enough to fall asleep, but adam and matt snoozed like champs. unfortunately, the hand-in-water trick didn't perform so well, resulting in zero wet beds. pranksters might protest, but the mythbusters pee test was a big, fat bust. the crash of flydubai boeing 737 in russia's rostov-on-don could occur after the commander of the aircraft deliberately sent the airplane into the ground, pravdaru reported. "during the preliminary investigation it was found that the commander of the boeing 737-800, presumably giving account for his actions and adequately assessing both the situation and the position of the aircraft relative to the ground, was holding the control knob for 12 seconds, thus putting the stabilizer into the nosedive mode," interfax news agency reported with reference to its source. based on the data obtained from the flight recorder, the commander of the boeing 737 was not answering questions from the co-pilot about the appropriateness of his actions. he would answer briefly and calmly: "all is well" and his intonation was calm, the source also said. previously, it was reported that the pilots of the flydubai aircraft had a conflict prior to the crash. allegedly, after one of the pilots made a mistake in maneuvers, his partner tried to take control of the wheel. in turn, a representative of the interstate aviation committee said that the committee did not have the information to prove that the commander of the aircraft was acting voluntarily. a piloting error remains the basic version of the investigation, the official said. a boeing 737 passenger aircraft of flydubai airline crashed on march 19 at 3:42 while landing at the airport of rostov-on-don, russia. the boeing-737-800 could not land on the first attempt and crashed during the second landing attempt. the aircraft nosedived and rammed into the runway at high speed. there were 55 passengers and seven members of the crew on board. the wreckage was scattered on the area of almost one kilometer around the crash site. it is with great sadness that we are sharing the tragic news that jana robeyst died on april 8th 2016, whilst pursuing a promising career dedicated to the study and conservation of wild forest elephants at mbeli bai, nouabale-ndoki national park. jana was an amazing scientist and a wonderful person who loved the work she was doing. she was living her dream by being out in the african rainforest each day observing her beloved forest elephants and western lowland gorillas in mbeli bai. jana arrived in congo to work at the mbeli bai study in december 2013 as a volunteer research assistant for a period of one year. she remained an enthusiastic advocate of the site ever since, returning in september 2015 for three months to train new researchers at the bai. finally she returned for a third time a few weeks ago to once again assist at the site, and share her knowledge of the elephants and gorillas that visit the bai with the new researchers. dez bryant wants to be a dallas cowboy for the foreseeable future. nfl media columnist michael silver reported sunday on nfl network's "nfl gameday morning" that bryant looks forward to signing a long-term contract with the cowboys in the offseason, per the player's advisor david wells. the star wide receiver still is playing on his rookie contract, which expires at the end of the 2015 season. bryant lost his cool during the cowboys' loss to the detroit lions, wagging his finger in romo's face while he screamed expletives in an effort to motivate his team. however, the tape of the incident showed bryant was more animated and passionate than angry, and the cowboys remain committed to bryant, per nfl media insider ian rapoport. "we love dez all the way," cowboys coo stephen jones told rapoport. the belief is that the end result of the sideline blowup is a clear reminder to tony romo that he has to target bryant, regardless of "what the play calls for," rapoport reported sunday, per cowboys sources. as for the sideline conversation with jason witten and demarcus ware, bryant realizes he was a little demonstrative, rapoport added. but ware was telling bryant, essentially, "you're right, tony needs to find you. but we have 14 seconds left, we need you to focus," rapoport reported. there were some expletives delivered, but both ware and witten were imploring bryant to move on and focus on the final play, which bryant was involved in. turkey's president says all suspected coup plotters and "terrorists" will have to wear an almond-brown uniform when they appear in court. recep tayyip erdogan said jumpsuits would be worn by those accused of involvement in the july 2016 coup plot. other "terrorists" would wear jackets and trousers. that term is used for followers of us-based islamic cleric fethullah gulen and for kurdish rebels. last month a defendant wearing a "hero" t-shirt appeared before a judge. police later detained nearly 30 people for wearing t-shirts with the word "hero" on them, the cnnturk news channel reported. "there will be no more coming into court wearing whatever they want," mr erdogan said in a speech in the eastern town of malatya. on the 15 july anniversary of the coup attempt, he demanded a prisoner uniform "like in guantanamo". the us prison for alleged jihadists makes inmates wear bright orange jumpsuits. read more on turkey coup attempt nearly 500 on trial over turkey coup plot turkey's trauma after night of the tanks turkey arrests dozens over t-shirt mr erdogan says turkey must root out all the "gulenists" blamed for the coup plot in which at least 260 people died. rogue officers tried to topple him and bombed parliament in a night of bloodshed. he said defendants were "lying all the time" in court. more than 50,000 people have been detained and 150,000 public servants suspended from work in a post-coup purge. there has been strong international criticism of the sweeping crackdown, enacted under a state of emergency. the act brumbies will become the first super rugby team to launch its own free-to-air television show next week as the club attempts to engage fans and boost its stagnated membership drive. in a move designed to break into a new market that has eluded australian rugby, the brumbies have locked in a deal with network ten to have a weekly slot on one hd for the super rugby season. kick-off: stephanie brantz will host the new brumbies tv show that starts next week. credit:jamila toderas it comes as the brumbies fight to attract new members, with sign-ups slowing at less than 7000 a week before the season begins against the wellington hurricanes at canberra stadium. brumbies chief executive michael jones said the target remained to break 11,000 members by the end of the year and was confident slower-than-expected sales would not halt progress. arsenal, manchester city and chelsea are among the clubs tracking montreal impact teenager ballou jean-yves tabla, a source close to the player has told espn fc. tabla, 17, is regarded as one of the brightest young talents outside of europe after impressing for the impact and his nation canada in the last 18 months. the skilful winger was born in the ivory coast, but he moved to canada at a young age and he has gone on to represent the country at youth level. tabla was named canadian under-17 player of the year in 2014 at the age of 15 and his performances have brought him to the attention of a number of europe's big sides. he is currently playing for montreal impact's reserve team fc montreal, but tabla trains regularly with the first team alongside chelsea legend didier drogba. tabla was part of the canada u20 side that beat their england counterparts 2-1 last month in doncaster and scouts are said to have been impressed by his showing in the game. the teenager's suitors are planning to keep tabs on tabla's progress and a source close to the player has told espn fc that several premier league sides have enquired about taking the player over to england on trial so that they can assess his potential first hand. a test flight of the 'world's fastest plane' has ended in disaster after the vehicle crashed into the pacific ocean. the us military's falcon htv-2 - which travels 22 times faster than a commercial airliner - was launched amid promises of flights from london to sydney in less than an hour. attached to the back of a rocket, the plane blasted off from vandenberg air force base in california, before detaching at the edge of space. but after around nine minutes, the craft stopped sending signals and is believed to have plunged into the ocean. engineers had hoped to guide the plane on a hypersonic flight, and that it would reach speeds of around 13,000mph upon its return to earth. travelling at about 20 times the speed of sound and withstanding temperatures of 2,000c, the plane was designed as part of a research project. a previous launch attempt was abandoned and plane designs changed in april due to a fault on board the aircraft. nine minutes into that previous mission, at which point the plane had flown for 139 seconds reaching 16,700mph, an onboard computer detected an anomaly and ordered the plane to ditch in the ocean for safety reasons. a second attempt on wednesday was delayed to thursday because of poor weather conditions. mangaluru: bjp mp anant kumar hegde has sparked a controversy over his reported remarks allegedly belittling islam and muslims at sirsi in uttara kannada district. the dakshina kannada district unit of youth congress filed a police complaint against the uttara kannada mp for making "blasphemous and insulting remarks" against islam and muslims, at a press conference yesterday. youth congress district vice president luqman bantwal said in the complaint that the sentiments of muslim community had been hurt by the comments made by the mp. dakshina kannada kazi twaka ahmed musliyar also urged the state government to take action against hegde for his "anti- islam rhetoric" at the press meet. meanwhile, state health minister u t khader requested home minister g parameshwara to take suo motu action against hegde for his "shocking and irresponsible" statement against islam. in addition to my own timbres pack for animoog, there have been several new packs produced by the community! i thought i'd round them all up for you here. for details on how to install these, see the original article on diy timbres. first up was bbcp, who sampled a waldorf microwave ii. he even made a pack sampled from another app, virsyn's addictive synth. shortly there after beatmakertv sampled his novation bassstation. mechetemirage dusted off his korg monotribe to put together his own pack. just last night tony kalt posted a new set of 18 timbres that range from gritty to eerie! there is also a commercial pack of 64 professional timbres from sunsine audio. i'm really glad to see ppg wavegenerator's release hasn't slowed down the enthusiasm for custom timbre hacking. san diego chargers quarterback philip rivers' comeback performance saturday night in the overtime victory at san francisco against the 49ers was even grittier than it looked. team sources tell espn that rivers is playing with a bulging disk in his lower back that doctors fear is on the brink of being herniated. the disk caused rivers to miss practice wednesday for the first time since 2007 even though the injury began to bother him some three weeks ago. rivers has taken epidural injections to reduce swelling, according to sources. he hopes to avoid offseason surgery, but it is an option, according to sources. rivers finished 33-for-54 for 356 yards in saturday's 38-35 overtime victory that helped keep the chargers' playoff hopes alive. although he threw three interceptions, he threw four touchdown passes and converted fourth-and-8 and fourth-and-10 on san diego's final drive of the fourth quarter as the chargers rallied to win after trailing by 21 points at halftime. not to worry though, this truck isn't going to consume a month's worth of electricity every time it takes a trip up the mountain. in fact, this truck actually generates more electricity than it uses. no, this isn't some weird perpetual motion machine, but instead uses physics to put regenerative braking as its main source of energy. when the e-dumper climbs to its destination, it consumes around 30 kwh of energy. but when descending the terrain, the previously-empty truck will now be hauling 120,000 pounds of rock. thanks to regenerative braking, the e-dumper actually generates a surplus of 10 kwh on its descent. over the course of a day, the truck is expected to make around 20 trips, dumping not only rocks on its return, but as much as 200 kwh of extra energy back into the grid. komatsu is no stranger to utilizing electric power plants in its trucks. the company has been releasing hybrid diesel-electric powerplants since as early as 2009, and automated commercial equipment for nearly as long. this particular concept, however, is a modified komatsu dump truck being designed by heavy equipment manufacturer, kuhn schweiz, and a swiss battery storage company called lithium storage. more businesses are searching for hybrid, fuel cell, or pure electric vehicle alternatives which have increased longevity and decreased costs. some governmental involvement is even being considered across europe that would completely ban the sale of fossil-fuel vehicles within the next 25 years. the e-dumper is a look at the very real possibilities of what is to come in the world of commercial vehicles. two of mayor bill de blasio's biggest transportation initiatives might actually be detrimental to each other, politico reports, based on findings from a city-commissioned report released last week on the brooklyn-queens connector. the citywide ferry service and the streetcar essentially serve many of the same neighborhoods and experts are now questioning whether the two will complement one another. planned stops along the streetcar's route match up almost identically to the ferry's route along the brooklyn and queens waterfront with stops for both in sunset park, red hook, brooklyn heights, and all the way up to astoria. "a new trip on the streetcar could subtract from the trips on the ferry and vice versa," jon orcutt, the transitcenter's advocacy director told politico. however those in support of both the transport initiatives have argued several points in favor of the services. for instance the streetcar does not offer east to west service like the ferry does. others argue that as large scale development continues along the brooklyn and queens waterfront, a diverse range of transportation options will be vital to the residents in those areas. the citywide ferry service is expected to commence next summer while the streetcar won't likely begin operation until 2024 at the earliest. mayor thomas menino will announce thursday that he will not run for re-election this fall. the mayor has set an announcement for 4 o'clock at faneuil hall - after telling his top city hall administrators at a meeting in the morning, sources say. "it appears to be the end of the line," said one of the mayor's close friends, who wished to remain unnamed. it is believed his doctors have told him the rigors of a full fledged campaign might be too much for him to withstand in his present physical condition. the mayor has apparently said that he does not want to enter a campaign and fail to go through with it. menino, now in the final year of his fifth term, had appeared fitter and stronger following several months of sketchy health and hospitalization and rehab. he recently moved back to his readville home from the city-owned parkman house. close associates claim he appears better than he is and that he weakens at the end of the work day. several sources, among them present and former elected public officials close with the mayor, said it is the people who won't call anyone back who hold the secret - spokesperson dot joyce, the mayor's strategist mike kineavy, and the mayor's best friend mike galvin. "they are saying nothing because the mayor will say it all tomorrow," said a source. menino first broached the topic with friend in east boston two weeks ago. a source claims the mayor will be taking some type of position at boston university when he leaves office in 7 months, although this could not be confirmed. menino, then a district city councilor from hyde park, became mayor in 1993: his colleagues made him city-council president, which meant he became mayor after ray flynn resigned as mayor to become ambassador to the vatican. indonesian muslim hard-liners staged a protest tuesday in the country's capital to try to stop the holding of the miss world pageant this weekend on the resort island of bali. more than 200 members of several muslim hard-line groups organized by the islamic society forum staged a rally and march on the mnc tower, the building that houses the local organizer of the contest. they held up banners with "reject miss world that exploits women" and "go to hell miss world" on them, and shouted "allah akbar," or god is great, outside the building, which was guarded by 300 police. "this is an insult and humiliation of women," muhammad al khathath, an islamic society forum leader, told the crowd. "muslims should reject the miss world contest," he said. the demonstration was peaceful and broke up after protest leaders met with the pageant organizers. some of the contestants have already arrived for the competition set to be held partly on bali, where the opening ceremony is to be held sunday, with the final round set for sept. 28 on the outskirts of jakarta. last week, the indonesian ulema council, the country's most influential clerics group, urged the government to cancel the event, saying the exposure of skin by women in such a competition violates islamic teachings, even after organizers agreed to cut the bikini competition and instead outfit contestants in more conservative sarongs. the chairwoman of the miss world organization, julia morley, earlier confirmed that none of the contestants would wear a bikini. most muslims in indonesia, a secular country of 240 million people and the world's most populous islamic country, are moderate, but a small extremist fringe has become more vocal in recent years. thirty fugitives wanted for war crimes or crimes against humanity are believed to be hiding in canada, prime minister stephen harper's government has said. the country's border services agency website named the suspects, appealing for the public's help to find them. the fugitives are listed as having come from regions including the middle east, africa and latin america. public safety minister vic toews said the suspects should be tracked down and removed from canada. the website said the wanted men came from afghanistan, algeria, angola, el salvador, ghana, guatemala, haiti, honduras, iraq, nigeria, pakistan, peru, the democratic republic of congo, somalia, sri lanka, sudan and the former yugoslavia. the border services agency did not indicate any specific charges against the suspects, but asked anyone with information about them to call a hotline. on wednesday, immigration minister jason kenney said canada planned to revoke the citizenship of 1,800 people suspected of obtaining their status fraudulently. the us senate has passed and sent to the house of representatives a bill to fund government operations from october 1 to november 15 to avert agency shutdowns. no republicans voted to pass the emergency funding measure on friday. senate majority leader harry reid, a democrat, said passing the bill would "send a message to radical republicans" that they should stop standing in the way of operating the government by trying to first gut the us healthcare law also referred to as 'obamacare'. meanwhile, business groups, including the us chamber of commerce, urged congress to promptly pass the spending bill and raise the limit on government borrowing. the 79-19 vote to end debate on the senate bill was a defeat for republican senator ted cruz, who tried to tie up the senate all week with demands that government funds be denied until president barack obama's healthcare law was stalled. fewer than half of his fellow republicans supported him. the bill faces rough going in the house, with many republicans wanting to again attach an 'obamacare amendment' or other measure that democrats would declare a poison pill. such a move by the house could result in deadlock and put the federal government closer to a shutdown on tuesday, which would likely result in up to 800,000 federal employees being furloughed. a former bodyguard for pop star britney spears has filed a sexual harassment lawsuit against her. fernando flores has accused the singer of repeatedly parading around in the nude and having sex in front of him. mr flores also claims ms spears caused him emotional distress by having violent quarrels with her boyfriend in front of her two children. the singer's lawyer did not comment. a lawyer for her ex-husband, kevin federline, called the case "baseless". according to papers filed in los angeles superior court, mr flores alleges that spears made repeated, unwanted sexual advances and summoned him to her room to expose her naked body. he also claims that he witnessed the singer punish her young sons with his belt and act inappropriately in front of them. however mr federline's lawyer, mark vincent kaplan, told the associated press that mr flores' accusations had been looked into before the legal action was filed and warranted no action. he added his client took allegations of abuse or wrongdoing regarding the former couple's children seriously. "he is satisfied that the allegations are a product of economic motives. they are as baseless as they seem," mr kaplan said. mr flores, who worked for ms spears from february to july this year, also accuses his security firm employers of ignoring or mocking his complaints over the singer's alleged actions . the beefcakes are back and better than ever in eugene. the oregon ducks' offensive linemen have once again been featured in a series of "modeling" photos. the group approached photographers ryan kang and taylor wilder last year about shooting images for a "sexy calendar," according to kang's instagram account. though the calendar never made it to production, kang released the photos thursday. as you might guess, the images are rather eye-catching. among the highlights: nine players -- one sporting a laurel crown -- draped in togas and feeding each other grapes; a lumberjack ensemble featuring a chainsaw, an axe and a shirtless, suspenders-clad center preparing to hike a log; and a pool party complete with inflatable tubes, boogie boards and fishing gear. you can see all 12 photos here. perhaps the ducks road-graders were inspired by the 2008 o-line, which took part in a similar production. that group drew plenty of attention, so much so that the players had to turn the focus away from their calendar and back to football. we can only imagine this new round of snapshots will attract similar fanfare. north korea is prepared to wage a "holy war" against the south, including using its nuclear weapons, the country's armed forces minister warned on thursday. he issued the threat as south korea staged a large show of force aimed at deterring further aggression by its volatile neighbour. the north's defence chief, kim yong chun, told a patriotic rally to celebrate the military achievements of the country's ailing dictator kim jong-il, that pyongyang was "fully prepared to launch a sacred war" if the south encroached on its territory. south korea staged its largest military exercise of the year on thursday exactly a month after a north korean artillery bombardment against a south korean island killed four, dramatically raising tensions on the peninsula. the drills, conducted 30 miles south of the heavily armed border dividing north and south korea, included around 800 troops, tanks, armoured personnel carriers, f15 fighter jets, artillery, multiple long-range rockets and helicopter gunships. environmental regulators are investigating an overflow from a dam at the bengalla coal mine, making it three recent mine spills in the hunter under review. the bengalla coal mine dam began to spill last friday but there was no failure of the dam wall, according to mine operators, rio tinto. section of rio tinto's warkworth sediment dam that gave way during the early january big rains. credit:john krey, via newcastle herald this month walls at two other sites - rio's warkworth mine and peabody energy's wambo mine - collapsed during heavy rains in the region, potentially spilling millions of litres of sediment-laden water into nearby rivers. as late as friday, water from the dam was still leaving the warkworth mine site, the nsw environment protection authority said in a statement. a spokesman for rio, however, said the release of water from the dam had ceased on friday. a fan favorite that was probably your first introduction to an awesome new world. it may not be the strongest thing in the world, but it will always hold a special place in your heart. you love it so much, but every time you let it into your life, all it does is put you to sleep. it may not be much on its own, but depending on what you add to it, it has the potential to be just about anything you want. it's so close to something awesome, but one small change has turned it into something stupid and worthless. it seems sweet at first, but eventually it turns around to reveal itself as horrible hell beast. a favorite among broey types, its popularity is well earned. unfortunately, if it's handled by someone who can't control it, a lot of people are probably going to get hurt as a result. it's the perfect choice for people who love dancing, but a lot of the time, its appeal is rooted in mexican stereotypes. a holdover from an earlier era, it's not the easiest thing to get your hands on, but if you do, it will likely lead to lots of destruction. you're not sure why it exists, and you don't know anyone who actually likes it, but odds are those who do are really weird. it's poison and it smells bad. you're going to need to work your way up to this one, but once you do, it's proof that you've become a true master. the seahawks got rid of drew nowak last week, even though he entered last year as their starting center. so with rosters at 90, you figured someone would pick him up. the chiefs became that somebody announcing they had signed nowak along with three players who impressed them sufficiently as tryouts during rookie minicamp. they also signed offensive linemen zach sterup and garrick mayweather and defensive back shannon edwards. to make the required roster spots, they released offensive linemen jake bernstein, ben clarke and laurence gibson, along with defensive back jordan kovacs. nowak lost his starting job midseason and ended the year on the practice squad, but the seahawks brought him back this offseason, before cutting him to make room for their own undrafted rookie class. in addition to placing the officer on restricted duty the msp is actively trying to contact the man that recorded the video, kin moy, but so far moy has remained unresponsive. "to date, the individual who posted a video depicting a trooper using pepper spray during a demonstration in boston last week has not responded to several requests by state police to contact us," said a statement from the msp. moy told multiple media outlets that he was reaching out to the aclu and an attorney first before cooperating further with an official investigation into the incident. i really ought to be used to it by now, but few things piss me off more than hearing our opponents claim that marijuana legalization means introducing "another intoxicant" into our society. variations on the whole "we have enough problems with alcohol and tobacco" argument have become a favorite weapon of the anti-reform crowd, yet we've never heard any of them endorsing prohibition of beer or cigarettes. if there were any truth to the apocalyptic anxieties of our opponents, life in california would already be a living hell. there is nothing remotely "new" about marijuana, particularly in a state that's had dispensaries for over a decade. very few californians are waiting for prop 19 to pass so that they can finally get high and become a burden on society. but i think our opposition knows that. their real fear is that nothing bad will happen and the case for the continued criminalization of cannabis could soon be rendered fraudulent for all to see. labour mp lianne dalziel has asked the founder of christchurch's student volunteer army, sam johnson, to stand together to challenge mayor bob parker in this year's local body elections, the press understands. speculation has been mounting as to who will run against parker in october. and the press can now reveal labour's canterbury earthquake recovery spokeswoman dalziel has asked johnson, 24, to be her running mate and would-be deputy mayor. johnson himself would have to be elected as a councillor to assume the deputy's position, and dalziel is believed to have sounded out other running mates too. but johnson's reputation soared after he organised the much-celebrated student army to help quake-affected cantabrians and in 2012 he was named young new zealander of the year. he currently sits on the riccarton-wigram community board and in january indicated he could seek a seat on the city council . "i'm not ruling it out but i haven't made a decision about it," johnson told the press at the time. neither dalziel nor johnson would comment last night. however, johnson is believed to have confided in a handful of city leaders yesterday. in a march interview with the press, dalziel indicated a mayoral bid was unlikely, but not definitely off the table. in recent weeks, city councillor tim carter also emerged as a viable challenger to parker, launching campaign-style attacks, and branding the incumbent as having a "very poor record". perhaps the most compelling murder case of our day, the death of six-year-old jonbenet ramsey galvanized the nation - and years after it occurred, the mystery still endures. who killed the young beauty queen and why? who is covering up for whom, and who is simply lying? in jonbenet, the most authoritative and comprehensive study of the ramsey murder, a former lead boulder police detective, steve thomas, explores the case in vivid and fascinating detail - pointing the way toward an analysis of the evidence some deem too shocking to consider. here, thomas raises these and many other provocative questions: how was the investigation botched from the beginning, and why did police so carelessly allow the crime scene to be tampered with? why were john and patsy ramsey protected from early questioning and any lie-detector tests, even though their stories and behavior were erratic, suspicious, and inconsistent? why was crucial evidence ignored, why were certain key witnesses unquestioned by detectives, and why were the ramseys privy to sensitive information about the case and even police reports? india's government has authorised the prosecution of 21 internet firms, including facebook, yahoo! and google, in a case over obscene content posted online, sources say. the approval could lead to company directors being called to a trial court in new delhi to answer serious charges such as fomenting religious hatred and spreading social discord, an official and a lawyer said. a file photo of an online cartoon of savita bhabhi which proved a taboo too far indian government censors. a criminal case against the web titans was first filed in a lower court by local journalist vinay rai, who complained that the sites were responsible for obscene and offensive material posted by users. he also claimed they had broken laws designed to maintain religious harmony and "national integration" in india. trade commissioner karel de gucht has warned russia that "if you take on one member state, you take on the whole european union", during a debate on increased customs checks on the russia-lithuania border. in recent weeks russian customs officers have imposed time-consuming checks on lithuanian lorries on the russian border, leading to long delays and queues. last week lithuanian foreign minister linas linkevicius warned that vilnius could retaliate on the border with kaliningrad, a russian enclave surrounded by lithuania and poland. the city of kaliningrad is a major port on the baltic. in an emergency debate called with meps on 8 october 2013, mr de gucht said he was considering summoning the russian ambassador. he warned, "i have no magic measure to solve this immediately," but said he was in the process of "drawing up a list of all the problems we have had with russia". there have been concerns that the increased checks are in response to an investigation by the european commission into alleged market-rigging by russia's gas giant gazprom. useful links: the european parliament's disclaimer on the use of simultaneous interpretations can be found here. read democracy live's guide to how the plenary sessions work here. hundreds of palestinians protested on friday along gaza's borders with israel, as international rights groups warned of a "total collapse" of basic services amid a steadily worsening electricity crisis. the gaza strip is in the middle of an electricity shortage that has left its two million residents with just a few hours of power a day, turning many aspects of everyday life in the hamas-governed territory upside down and raising concerns about of a looming humanitarian crisis. earlier this week, israel reduced the amount of electricity it supplies to gaza to about three hours a day after palestinian authority president mahmoud abbas cut electricity funding to the israeli-besieged territory. the move was widely seen as a move by abbas to step up pressure on the rival hamas movement. the un humanitarian coordinator for the occupied palestinian territories, robert piper, warned the additional power cuts would have a disastrous effect. this reduced supply, combined with peak demand during the ramadan holiday season, has created rolling blackouts that give people just two to four hours of power at a time. residents must plan food purchases daily, as proper refrigeration is impossible. hospitals are running on generators and fuel is in short supply. they must carefully plan daily tasks, such as doing the laundry or taking a shower, for when they expect to have power, even if that means waking up in the middle of the night. many homes use electric water pumps, so no electricity also means no water. a piece of fossilised bone just a centimetre long and around 240 million years old is providing evidence that a line of giant lizards still living in new zealand can trace their ancestry back to beyond the time of the dinosaurs. the jaw bone was not dug up in new zealand but in vellberg in germany. the find pushes back the history of the new zealand animal, the tuatara, by a further 10 to 15 million years. rainer schoch of the stuttgart natural history museum said in the magazine bmc evolutionary biology that the find, along with later discoveries including a complete skeleton, would provide further knowledge on the evolution of this line of reptiles. they are related to both snakes and monitor lizards. the species, which measured between five and 10 centimetres, has the unusual characteristic of the teeth growing directly out of the jaw. "our early specimen is a very complete tuatara," schoch said. tuatara, often described as "living fossils," continue to live on several islands off the new zealand coast. "i don't like the term 'living fossil' but this is the case here to some extent. this line is very long and very conservative," schoch said. the site in south-western germany has yielded more than 25 new species over the past 13 years. schoch hopes that many more will be found in the rocks. the biggest finds at vellberg range up to six metres in length. palaeontologists from washington, buenos aires, london and berlin are assisting with the dig. the 23-year-old woman and 28-year-old man were killed because "they had an affair," said mohammad ayob, the governor of imam sahib district in kunduz province. "two people were stoned to death by taliban in mullah quli village late yesterday," he said. the village is under the control of the taliban. mullah quli resident abdul satar said about 100 people, most of them taliban insurgents, gathered in the village on sunday evening as a statement was read out saying the pair had confessed to their affair. he said the man was married to someone else, and the woman was engaged. "the taliban convicted both to stoning to death, some from the crowd started throwing stones at the couple until they died," mr satar said. the couple had their hands bound behind their backs and were forced to stand in an empty field as their sentence was carried out, he said. a local taliban commander, who contacted media but refused to give his name, confirmed the killings. "the couple confessed they had eloped together and based on their confession they were stoned to death," he said. under islamic sharia law, sex between unmarried people is punishable by public beatings, while punishment for those caught in extra-marital affairs is death by stoning. earlier this month, the taliban publicly flogged and then killed a pregnant widow for alleged "adultery" in western badghis province. the killings are a grim reminder of the taliban's harsh 1996-2001 rule, when apparent crimes were brutally punished after summary trials. as well as lashings and death by stoning for alleged adulterers, people accused of theft regularly had their hands or feet amputated. in regions that have come under taliban control as the war drags towards the end of its ninth year, rough justice is meted out in the same manner, and includes execution of people accused of "spying" for foreign forces. the division of google responsible for wearable technology, project aura, has been hard at work on numerous iterations based on the original glass headset. now we've got a glimpse at what one of those devices may look like. in fcc filings published today, a version of glass designed for the workplace shows a familiar-looking device with a glass prism, but equipped with a hinge so that it can be folded and placed in pockets like a standard pair of glasses. only one image in the filings shows a device with the original glass' nose bridge, so it's unclear whether the finished "enterprise version" of glass, as it's called, will attach to a headband-like piece of metal and sit perched on the wearer's nose. the new glass will reportedly support 5ghz wi-fi and contain a better built-in battery, faster intel processor, and improved camera. the prism, now larger, is said to expand the field of view of glass' floating display, according to the wall street journal. the device will also be waterproof and more durable so it can withstand falls and other physical damage on factory floors and other workplace environments. google has yet to confirm the device's existence, let alone a release date or price. but hundreds of units have reportedly been distributed to partners in google's glass for work program, and 9to5google says those partners have most likely designed proprietary software for the device to work exclusively in certain situations. it's unclear if google will develop a version of its android operating system for glass, or ever release a consumer version of the device. an oregon woman pleaded guilty to throwing her boyfriend's dog into traffic during a break-up. shellie hubbard, 46, was arguing with her boyfriend, darwin vonschirmer, last december while the two were driving down a highway in washington state, the columbian reports. lawyers say the couple was in the process of ending their relationship. according to police, hubbard sliced vonschirmer's hand with a broken coffee mug, then threw the couple's dog, a catahoula leopard hound dog named peanut butter, out of the car and into traffic. peanut butter was killed by an oncoming vehicle. on friday, hubbard pleaded guilty to first-degree animal cruelty, third-degree assault and possession of methamphetamine, according to the associated press. judge barbara johnson sentenced hubbard to seven months in jail, noting that hubbard not only caused the animal's death, but also endangered fellow drivers. hubbard is also legally barred from owning pets for five years. this is not the only case of animal abuse to transpire in recent months. in august, a texas woman was arrested after dragging her five-pound terrier, mimi, behind an suv. the woman, who was driving at a speed of 10 mph, said she was simply trying to "walk" mimi. the man was working for a company that produces helicopter parts, often for the german military. he had to take a security clearance test by the german economic affairs ministry and did not pass because of his membership with the church of scientology. the mechanic argued that he was simply a member and that scientology as his religion should be a private matter. but the court on tuesday ruled that denying him security clearance for classified materials was justifiable, in particular because scientologists are required to go through auditing - a sort of confessional counseling in which their thoughts and experiences are kept on record. the court explained that this practice rightly leaves doubt about scientologists' trustworthiness with classified materials and their loyalty to the constitution. the court further said that this decision did not violate the man's right to freedom of religion. the german government does not recognize scientology as a religion, unlike in the united states, and tends to view the organization with a high level of scepticism. courts have ruled in the past that the group is engaged in activities that are subversive to freedom and democracy and should be subject to closer surveillance. australia has a special bond with america, a nation with which we share strong cultural, historic, social and economic ties. we believe it is important for australia and the usa to have a good relationship now and in the future and for present and coming generations to be aware of, and realize the value of this friendship. our association fosters and promote better understanding, mutual appreciation and friendly co-operation between the peoples of australia and the united states of america. the association has the full support of the governments of australia and america. the council and members of the australian american association in south australia gratefully acknowledge the generous donation from the chugg family in honour of the late richard chugg and from a member, who wishes to remain anonymous, in honour of their late father. these donations enabled the development of this website. cold weather has been blamed for the deaths of two people in tha pla district of uttaradit. room in-jae, president of the ta faek tambon administration organisation, said the temperature plunged to 9c yesterday morning in the mountainous area close to the sirikit dam. two people with asthma have died because of the cold weather, mr room said. about 1,385 families in the tambon need blankets and warm clothes, he added. in the northeastern province of nakhon ratchasima, the temperature dropped to 15-17c in the central phimai district yesterday morning. the cold snap prompted teachers at anuban suriya uthai phimai school to organise activities outdoors to keep students warm under the sun. in buri ram, the temperature fell to 13c in pa kham district. pa kham district chief chaiwat junthirapong cautioned residents about lighting bonfires to keep themselves warm. local authorities distributed blankets to more than 1,000 residents, mr chaiwat said. will you be the head-turning vamp this evening? or will you be the exquisite observer and mystery woman in the room? get the edge with urban decay makeup! with the urban decay brand, you have full palette of tools for the style you want to create. you can match every aspect of your makeup into a complete look, from eyeshadow to body powder. urban decay cosmetics include luxurious lip mousse and an eyeshadow routine to accentuate your best features. accent your workday suit separates with a neutral makeup palette or match your more daring contemporary outfit, like denim jacket and ripped jeans, with a smokey eye. if you have a favorite color, select from a focused palette of color choices. on the run mini palettes give you a full vanity that fits in your handbag. if you want a more natural look, browse the naked collection. urban decay is a makeup brand that can provide you a wide range of stylish looks that always fit the season. shop a full selection of urban decay cosmetics at belk. general motors announced monday it's recalling more than 38,000 chevrolet and buick eassist light hybrid cars for a potential fire issue. the automaker said circuit boards in the trunk can potentially overheat, causing the cars' 12-volt battery to drain and one of several indicator lights to turn on. if owners ignore the warning lights, the engine could stall and a fire could occur in the trunk, gm said. the issue is not related to the cars' rechargable lithium-ion battery that is part of the eassist hybrid system. the recall affects 38,197 chevrolet malibu eco and buick lacrosse and regal sedans from the 2012 and 2013 model year. most of the incidents have occurred within the first 1,000 miles of operation, gm said. the issue came to gm's attention in october 2012, according to spokesman alan adler. the automaker briefly stopped production of the affected vehicles to make a fix in production. thus, cars built after december 2012 are not part of the recall. adler said that a trunk fire in march 2013 in an earlier-built car led to monday's recall. no injuries or crashes related to this incident have been reported, gm said. owners of malibu eco and buick lacrosse and regal cars who notice any kind of warning light are encouraged to bring the car to the dealer immediately, adler said. gm will begin notifying owners soon. tunisia's ousted president zine el-abidine ben ali said he was tricked into leaving his country for saudi arabia, as tunisia begins to try him in absentia in the first of what are expected to be multiple trials related to his years in power. ali said monday in a statement issued by his lawyers that he had taken a plane to saudi arabia to bring his family to safety. he said he had planned to return to tunisia immediately, but the plane's crew ignored his instructions to wait for him and left without him. ben ali went to saudi arabia in january amid mass protests against his 23-year rule. the ousted leader is being tried in absentia monday on charges that include embezzlement, money laundering, and drug trafficking. future trials are expected on charges that include conspiring against the state and voluntary manslaughter. in all, there are more than 90 criminal cases pending against ben ali and his allies. officials say the former president will be tried in military and civilian courts. he has denied all charges against him. saudi officials have not responded to tunisian requests to extradite ben ali and his wife, leila trabelsi. many tunisians say they believe the former president and his family improperly amassed large fortunes. protesters looted and set fire to dozens of the family's businesses and luxurious villas during the january uprising. the ousted president said he never had the huge sums of money he is alleged to have possessed. some information for this report was provided by afp and reuters. the 2013 season is truly a wrap at this point, and for some players, that means it is time to get back to work. last week, colin kaepernick mentioned that he was headed down to miami on monday to begin his offseason program. he spent several days in new york city during super bowl week, but the 49ers qb said he was not sticking around to watch the game. kaepernick is headed to a facility in miami that was recommended to him by frank gore and anquan boldin. i'm not completely sure, but there is a good chance it is the facility mentioned in this article. the article discusses bommarito performance systems, which has a main location in the michael-ann russell jewish community center in north miami beach, and a secondary location in davie. pete bommarito started his company in 2004, and has a pair of locations in south florida. the article discusses how bps helps athletes train in footwork, strength, endurance, power, agility, movement position work and aquatics. gore apparently first worked with bommarito when he was preparing for the 2005 nfl draft. kap is expected to be joined by wide receiver quinton patton as the two players look to gain further rapport. kap showed some confidence in the young receiver, and a full offseason together will benefit that confidence. there is no word yet on when patton will meet up with kap. the idea of making just one actor or actress the lynchpin of a feature-length movie is enough to turn most filmmakers pants-on-head levels of crazy. it's one thing to make a successful film with an entire ensemble at your fingertips, but it's quite another to create something magnificent - or even watchable - with one lone performer. these "one-man shows" are a painful viewing experience when they don't work out, especially once the initial gimmickry falls away to reveal an underwhelming story or a mediocre performance. because these types of movies succeed or fail based entirely on those two things: story and performance. it's crucial that both of those elements knock it out of the park, because there are no other distractions for the audience to get swept away by. and once the viewers are lost, there's really nothing left to reel them back in. on the other hand, when it works, this strange sub-genre of dramatic film can be a truly, uniquely satisfying experience. sometimes it's even enough to redefine an actor's career. now in the interest of transparency, some of the films on this list do technically have more than one actor on the roster - occasional cameos or supporting voice actors, that sort of thing - but for the most part, it's all on the shoulders of just one man or woman. lebanon's shia movement hezbollah, an ally of syrian president bashar al-assad, has said that a six-month truce has been agreed for the rebel-held town of zabadani and two shia towns in the northwest. hezbollah chief hassan nasrallah told the movement's al-manar television on friday that the deal was reached under the auspices of the un with mediation from damascus ally iran. nasrallah said the deal will entail the "evacuation of armed and wounded men from zabadani to idlib province in exchange for the evacuation of 10 000 civilians from the villages of fuaa and kafraya to zones controlled by the regime". "there will be no more fighters in zabadani," nasrallah said, indicating that the syrian army could enter the remaining rebel-held areas and take control. he said that civilians living in and around zabadani who did not want to stay could also go to idlib safely. 'positive developments' on thursday, un spokesperson jessy chahine told the afp news agency there had been "positive developments in the talks, which were facilitated by the un," but added that it was up to the parties themselves to say if there was a deal to announce. in july, pro-government forces launched an offensive to try to recapture zabadani. this prompted a sunni rebel alliance to besiege the idlib province villages of fuaa and kafraya whose residents are shias. rami abdel rahman, director of the uk-based syrian observatory for human rights, said the truce was reached between rebel fighters, including ahrar al-sham, and pro-regime forces and their hezbollah allies. short truces agreed previously between the warring parties have often been broken. a syrian source close to the talks told afp on thursday that the accord would see the evacuation of some 10 000 civilians from besieged fuaa and kafraya on saturday and sunday. they will be driven out in red cross vehicles to regime-controlled areas. in exchange, about 500 rebel fighters will withdraw from zabadani and head for idlib province. the national trust risks being mired in "years of conflict" if a proposal to ban trail hunting is backed by members today, countryside campaigners have said. tim bonner, the chief executive of the countryside alliance, warned that other field sports could face bans like grouse shooting and fishing. there are already talks about a new campaign among environmentalists to ban grouse shooting on two national trust moors in derbyshire. baroness mallalieu, the alliance's president and a member of the national trust, added that "from being regarded as the custodian of our countryside, the charity is well on the way to being seen as the manager of a bland and sanitised theme park". as many as 500 members are expected to attend to vote in person at the meeting today in swindon. the vote was open to the trust's five million members. mr bonner told the daily telegraph: "any decision to ban trail hunting on national trust land would launch years of conflict within the trust as hunting members seek to reassert the right to hunt on land which has been hunted for generations. this means that leaning on the saudis to become "less wahhabi" is unlikely to have much effect on jihadist movements like al qaeda and islamic state. they and their followers look to other sources of political and doctrinal inspiration, not the official saudi clerics. the jihadist groups draw some of their adherents from saudi arabia, but the vast majority of saudi muslims, including the vast majority of saudi wahhabis, reject these groups. saudi wahhabism can be a path toward jihadism, but it is hardly the only one. tunisia, probably the most secular state in the arab world and the one relative success story of the arab spring, has sent more jihadists to syria than has saudi arabia. the europeans and americans attracted by the propaganda of islamic state did not grow up in the milieu of official saudi wahhabism. bicycles have the upper hand on cars in that they're safer for the environment, healthier for the user, and generally have an easier time getting around in dense urban settings. one area where bikes will always lose to cars, however, is weight. bikes aren't heavy enough to trigger the underground sensors that change traffic lights, so at many intersections, a cyclist has to either wait for a car to come, push the pedestrian crossing button, or blow through the red light. the city of rochester is looking to change that by installing cameras that detect when a bicycle is stopped at an intersection and trigger the process to change the light. the plan is to use the cameras on bike boulevards, a series of connected streets that help cyclists avoid main roads. rochester has been proactive in terms of fostering a bike culture and has implemented many innovations to make life easier and safer for the local cycling community. the cameras are the latest example. two cameras have been installed so far: one at the intersection of monroe avenue and canterbury road, and the other at harvard street and culver road. canterbury and harvard are part of rochester's first bike boulevard, and speed humps, bike markings, and bike wayfinding signs have been installed on these streets, too. erik frisch, the city's transportation specialist, says that more detection cameras will go up as more boulevard miles are created. the city plans a total of 53 miles, he says. in addition to bike boulevards, frisch says, cameras could be used at intersections with bike boxes. the boxes are spaces at the front of intersections where cyclists can pull ahead of cars and wait for the light to change. "it gives bikes a little head start and a little more visibility if they're in the intersection," frisch says. seven streets were cordoned off in the surrounding area. a man who held two others hostage and made threats with what he claimed to be a homemade gun at a property in redcliffe, north of brisbane, is in custody after surrendering to police. the man was taken into custody about 8:00pm, almost nine hours after police first arrived at the klingner road house. the man had allegedly made threats and was holding two men hostage, prompting police to set up an exclusion zone and call in negotiators. police said there had been three people in the house, but two men, believed to be the man's father and brother, were released earlier this afternoon and were safe and well. inspector john hallam said the man had been armed with what appeared to be a homemade gun. "that's what he identified it as," inspector hallam said. "any weapon is serious and that's why we reacted the way we did. streets around klingner road were cordoned off as a precaution. an off-duty dallas-area police officer working security at a wal-mart store has fatally shot a shoplifting suspect who wielded a stolen crowbar. garland police say the officer has been put on administrative duty during a review of the incident. police say the uniformed officer used a taser on the 19-year-old suspect as the man attempted to leave the store sunday afternoon. investigators say the teen refused to put down a crowbar allegedly stolen from the business and used the tool to threaten the officer. police say the officer, whose name wasn't immediately released, opened fire. the suspect was shot in the chest and died sunday night at a hospital. authorities didn't immediately release the suspect's name. garland police spokesman officer joe harn says surveillance video will be reviewed. a small group of detainees has staged a protest on the roof of a block at the christmas island detention centre. tuesday's protest occurred as federal opposition leader tony abbott and his immigration spokesman scott morrison visited the island detention centre for a briefing, but it was unclear if they were anywhere near it at the time. the latest action comes as a few detainees continue a rooftop protest at the villawood detention centre in sydney, where up to 100 rioters burnt down buildings last week. detainees are angry over lengthy delays in processing and the rejection of asylum claims. a department of immigration spokeswoman told aap that earlier on tuesday eight detainees at the northwest point facility on christmas island had climbed onto a roof to stage a protest but by mid-afternoon only two were still on the roof. about a week ago, it was stated that oddworld: new 'n' tasty! was 'literally in the final steps' to completion. it wasn't stated exactly what this meant, but the implication was that there would be more news in the near future. it appears that this was indeed the case, as a new post recently went up on the game's website that gave a progress update many will no doubt be very happy to see. the game has officially made it through lotcheck for both nintendo of europe and america. after the somewhat troubled development this has gone through, it's good to see that the game is finally so close to a release. no release date was given, but one will be announced 'shortly', so hopefully the wait won't be too long. subscribe to nintendo life on what do you think? are you glad that oddworld is at last ready for release? for those that have played it on other platforms, what did you think? drop us a comment in the section below. caz socant la iasi: un barbat de 42 de ani a ajuns in agonie la camera de garda a spitalului de urgenta. cand i-au facut radiografia, medicii i-au descoperit in stomac un cutit. comenteaza medicii au ramas uluiti cand au primit radiografia in care se vede in stomacul barbatului un cutit de 25 de centimetri. pacientul a intrat imediat in sala de operatie, unde doctorii i-au extras obiectul metalic. dupa ce si-a revenit, a povestit ca s-a certat cu sotia lui pe care a amenintat-o ca-si va face rau. a avut un noroc extraordinar, pentru ca a fost salvat de chirurgi. el va ramane internat cateva zile in spital. medicii spun ca barbatul nu este la prima isprava de acest gen si ca in ultimii ani a mai venit la spital dupa ce a inghitit tot felul de obiecte ciudate. in many games, the "boss battles" are meant to be the pinnacles of the player's experience. it is important for these encounters to stand out in many ways. in fact, creating an epic, enjoyable boss battle is a challenge that pulls in many different factors of game development. because they often incorporate enemies with unique capabilities, novel attacks, and more elaborate interactions, crafting the ai for bosses often involves unique challenges that are not often encountered when working on ai for the rest of the npcs. by analyzing some examples from the popular free-to-play game, warframe, we explore some of typical challenges faced when crafting ai for boss battles and offer design and engineering advice for pulling all the disparate elements together to produce a spectacular, memorable encounter for players. rank-and-file officials at the australian bureau of statistics have "grave doubts" that the same-sex marriage postal vote can be done properly in the time-frame ordered by the turnbull government, the public servants' union says. some abs workers fear the postal survey will be a "rush job" that risks repeating last year's census debacle, while others are worried it will not deliver an accurate picture of australians' opinions of same sex marriage, according to the community and public sector union. even the bureau's boss has conceded to his staff that doing the job by november 15 is "challenging" although chief statistician david kalisch insists the abs is up to the task. one of his deputies, jonathan palmer , was dismissive in a statement on wednesday about the union's survey, saying it represented only about 5 per cent of the bureau's workforce. forty prisoners have escaped from a jail in the northern nigerian town of damaturu after it was stormed by a group of armed men, police say. yobe state police commissioner patrick egbuniwe said his men were overpowered by at least 40 attackers at the prison. the past few months have seen several jail breaks in northern nigeria, some but not all of which have been admitted by the islamist group boko haram. there were no suspected boko haram members in the jail, mr egbuniwe said. the attackers entered the prison at dawn on sunday with firearms and explosives. police tried to resist the attack but were overpowered. there were reports of injured on both sides. no group has said it carried out the attack. the jailbreak comes after a week of violence in northern nigeria including attacks on churches by boko haram which has left about 150 people dead. at least 40 people were killed in gunbattles in damaturu between the group and security forces. the violence led to the removal of the country's defence minister and national security adviser. boko haram, which means "western education is forbidden" in the hausa language, seeks to overthrow the government and establish an islamic state. the group adheres to a strain of islam that outlaws any kind of activity linked to western culture. one of the group's demands is the release of all its jailed members. i became a big fan of monolith soft after their amazing work on xenoblade for the wii, which many of us hold in our hearts as one of the best rpgs of all time. seeing them pour so much love into this new gem, as shown to us in the treehouse experience at e3, giving us a huge world, full of life and great variety, that you can explore by just flying around in a giant mech, exploring while enjoying a, so far, beautiful soundtrack crafted by hiroyuki sawano. the art style is good, the story looks interesting, and both the graphics and music are amazing. the only thing to do left is wait. this can be one of the greatest games of all time. we'll just have to wait for it. the us supreme court has refused to hear an appeal from panama's ex-leader manuel noriega against his extradition to france on money laundering charges. noriega wanted to be sent back to his country after completing a drug sentence at a jail in florida. in april, a us court ruled the former dictator could be extradited to france. the us convicted noriega of laundering illicit drugs money in 1990 and he was sentenced to 30 years, later reduced to 17 years for good behaviour. france convicted him in his absence in 1999 for laundering money through french banks, though it says he will be granted a new trial. his lawyers had argued international law required he be returned to panama. as a former prisoner of war following the us invasion of panama in 1989, they said, the geneva conventions precluded his extradition to a third country. he also faces a 20-year sentence at home imposed by a panamanian court in his absence for ordering the murder in 1985 of hugo spadafora, a prominent opponent. noriega, who is in his 70s, led panama in the mid- to late 1980s and was a key american ally in the region before being captured by invading us forces. he has remained in us custody ever since the completion of his 17-year us prison term, pending his appeal against extradition. meet the alpha mums, headed by amanda, very much the queen bee. everything is organised, clean and sparkly - even the kitchen cork board is a statement of success. at the other end of the spectrum, we meet liz, who is totally chaotic and feels the kids should enjoy free expression - if they want to do kamikaze jumps off the sofa, she drags a mattress round for safety. somewhere between amanda and liz is julia - she is organised - she has to be as she is a successful events organiser - but when her mother marion decides she is no longer going to be the free child-sitter and school-run taxi, julia finds her organisation skills are taxed and nowhere near the level of the alpha mums. also in the mix is kevin - he is the stay-at-home dad, who, rather than fighting against that, is embracing it with gusto - much to the irritation of the other mums. this is mothers and they really are - coping or not - competitive and helpful. if the pulling girls had kids, this is what it would be like. step inside the prototype of "baby boeing", the first production 737 airplane! this prototype made its first flight on april 9, 1967, with pilots brien wygle and lew wallick in the cockpit. less than a year later, the 737 made its commercial debut as a lufthansa jetliner and has been in production ever since. boeing used this particular prototype 737 as a flight test aircraft until 1974 when nasa began using it to test various innovations, including virtual cockpit, electronic flight displays, and wind detection systems. the boeing 737 is the smallest and most used jetliner in the company's fleet. this prototype was a twin engine, medium-range airliner and was designed to carry up to 124 passengers. to date, over 8,000 baby boeings have been built. this plane can be seen at the museum of flight in seattle, wa, where it is on loan from nasa, langley research center. when supergirl first made her way to the cw, fans couldn't help but wonder if she would crossover again with the other dc shows as she did with the flash during her first season on cbs. to say fans were elated when they found out that all four shows would be involved in one this year would be an understatement, and it looks like production is already underway. legends of tomorrow actress caity lotz shared a new picture via twitter with supergirl's melissa benoist with the caption "seriously super". both are in their respective costumes, and the crossover will most likely take place in the mid to late season, so they very well could be shooting it right now. of course, it could be a shot from their promotional trailers for the cw, but for now the former seems more likely. as for what to expect from the upcoming event, executive producer marc guggenheim told fans about the crossovers premise. the police on friday seized more than a crore in cash from searches at multiple locations across the country to clamp down on tax evasion post demonetisation. the new currency notes were seized from haryana, gujarat and maharashtra and several people were arrested in connection with the seizures. in gujarat, rs 76 lakh was seized, in haryana rs 10 lakh and in maharashtra rs 85 lakh. advertising in gujarat, the police arrested four people carrying new currency notes worth rs 76 lakh in surat. the surat police seized currency notes of rs 2,000 from a car in sachin gidc area detaining four persons, two of whom belong to nasik and one is a fashion designer. acting on specific input, the sachin police staff intercepted a car under suspicion and questioned its passengers. police sources said that the cash was brought from nasik and it was likely to be delivered to a person in sachin gidc area. sachin gidc police had intimated the income tax department officials to assist and interrogate all the four people. in haryana, the crime branch on thursday night seized new currency notes approximately worth rs 10 lakh during a search operation near gurugram. the police are investigating the matter. in maharashtra, the mumbai crime branch detained two persons and seized new currency notes worth rs 85 lakh from dadar. the cash was seized by unit 5 of the crime branch from babasaheb ambedkar road on friday afternoon, mumbai police spokesperson ashok dudhe said. a probe is underway in this regard, the officer added. fallout 4 is coming to xbox one, playstation 4 and pc, and so far, this is what it looks like. first, the rumors are true: fallout 4 is set in boston, as demonstrated by scenes from an alternate-universe scollay square, the real-life boston city center established in 1838 and demolished in 1962, plus other landmarks in the video. second: that voice you hear is definitely series narrator ron perlman. bethesda's 24-hour fallout 4 teaser site hit zero this morning, revealing a trailer and pre-order links, plus a nudge to tune into the company's presentation at e3 on june 14th. the teaser site also went live a tad early, letting the world peek platform details and a few screenshots ahead of the actual announcement. watch the first fallout 4 trailer below. a catholic priest in germany has been banned from preaching after speaking at an anti-islam protest. father paul spaetling had taken part in a rally in the western city of duisburg on monday. it was organized by a group that associates itself with the organization patriotic europeans against the islamization of the west, or pegida, which has staged large weekly rallies in dresden for about three months. the diocese of muenster said in a statement emailed to the associated press on wednesday that it rejected spaetling's comments about islam. the bishop of muenster, felix genn, says he's withdrawing spaetling's right to preach or speak on behalf of the church. another pegida-related group is planning to hold a protest in leipzig late wednesday, saying it expects tens of thousands to attend. due to a scarcity of longitudinal trials directly measuring changes in muscle girth, previous recommendations for inter-set rest intervals in resistance training programs designed to stimulate muscular hypertrophy were primarily based on the post-exercise endocrinological response and other mechanisms theoretically related to muscle growth. new research regarding the effects of inter-set rest interval manipulation on resistance training-induced muscular hypertrophy is reviewed here to evaluate current practices and provide directions for future research. of the studies measuring long-term muscle hypertrophy in groups employing different rest intervals, none have found superior muscle growth in the shorter compared with the longer rest interval group and one study has found the opposite. rest intervals less than 1 minute can result in acute increases in serum growth hormone levels and these rest intervals also decrease the serum testosterone to cortisol ratio. long-term adaptations may abate the post-exercise endocrinological response and the relationship between the transient change in hormonal production and chronic muscular hypertrophy is highly contentious and appears to be weak. the relationship between the rest interval-mediated effect on immune system response, muscle damage, metabolic stress, or energy production capacity and muscle hypertrophy is still ambiguous and largely theoretical. in conclusion, the literature does not support the hypothesis that training for muscle hypertrophy requires shorter rest intervals than training for strength development or that predetermined rest intervals are preferable to auto-regulated rest periods in this regard. htc and valve have partnered to create the htc vive virtual reality system. the vive features room-scale tracking and includes motion controllers bundled with the headset. designing your game or experience for a specific input device is essential for a vr developer so having the motion controllers come with every vive is a very important advantage for this platform. with the power and popularity of steam, the strength of its lighthouse tracking technology and the bundling of motion controllers, the vive is sure to achieve a wide market appeal to consumers. in this free mini course you will learn the basics of how to create room scale and seated vr experiences with the htc vive, steamvr and unity. this mini course is designed to give you a quick win with htc vive development. the goal is to get you up and running with vive vr development as quickly as possible. i will take you through the basics of setting up your development environment and we'll explore some of the code included in the steam vr unity plugin. we'll take a look at receiving input events from the vive controllers and using those events to interact with objects in the virtual world. the big banks have pledged to overhaul bonuses paid to their retail staff to try to get better outcomes for customers, but the move has already drawn criticism for not going far enough. the sedgwick retail banking remuneration review, commissioned by the peak body for australia's banks, the australian bankers' association, recommended on wednesday that staff should no longer receive bonuses for simply hitting sales targets and the sales commissions given to third party mortgage brokers be replaced with a fee for service model. the review, by former australian public service commissioner stephen sedgwick, follows a string of scandals in the banking sector linked to staff commissions, including inappropriate financial advice, aggressive loan marketing tactics and insurance policy switching. it also comes amid calls for a royal commission into the sector by the alp and the greens over bad banking behaviour. a deltona woman is facing charges after authorities say she threatened and attacked churchgoers. media outlets report volusia county sheriff's office deputies responded tuesday evening to reports of an intoxicated woman causing a disturbance at a kingdom hall of jehovah's witnesses. according to an arrest report, a victim told deputies she was going to give 30-year-old destinie farr a ride home, when farr said she wanted to slit the victim's throat. farr then attempted to grab another victim by the throat, but missed and grabbed her hair. when a deputy was trying to arrest farr, she allegedly spit on the deputy. farr was charged with battery on a law enforcement officer, corruption by threat against public official and resisting arrest with violence. it's unclear if she has an attorney. there are plenty of existing mobile payment systems that let you buy goods with your iphone, but there are now signs that apple wants to take on some of those duties itself. the wall street journal claims that the company is in the early stages of building a mobile payment infrastructure that would let its customers buy all kinds of products and services, not just those in its own stores. sources say that cupertino has tasked the former head of its online store with getting the service off the ground, and it's reportedly discussing the idea with other companies in the tech industry. apple isn't commenting on the rumor, but it has been researching mobile payments for years -- we know it's at least intrigued by the concept. nsw police will give prosecutors evidence that three of the most senior members of the catholic church allegedly concealed the sexual assault of young girls in the hunter valley, in a landmark case that could expose the church to a new wave of criminal prosecution. one of three people of interest in strike force lantle is the general secretary of the australian catholic bishops conference, father brian lucas, who is alleged to have been aware of the actions of the paedophile priest denis mcalinden as far back as 1993 but failed to report him to police. the others are archbishop philip wilson of adelaide, who wrote to police yesterday to formally decline to be interviewed, and the retired bishop of maitland-newcastle michael malone. from 1993 to 1995 the three had roles in internal moves against the priest, including an attempted ''speedy'', secret defrocking in october 1995 because of the evidence against him. the church failed to report the matter to authorities until 2003, after victims notified the police and were paid compensation. you're out camping in your hammock, but what about the rain? well, the glider is a rain tarp for your hammock tent that not only protects you from the rain, but it also allows you to capture the rain using a water retention system for drinking and cooking. the kammock glider is made using unique amphibskin fabric that will protect you from rain, sun, blistering heat, and even snow. the rain catching tarp will easily connect to their roo and dragonfly products to create the ultimate lightweight camping experience, while still having extreme protection, and features that let you capture the rain. the kammock glider rain catching tarp features 10 reinforced guy out points, has reflective drawstrings, has a removable debris filter, and measures 12 feet long x 9 feet wide. check out the rain catching hammock tent tarp in action via the video below. a young man suspected of having attacked a group of three jewish youths in lyon saturday turned himself in to police thursday but denied involvement in the assault. the victims were all wearing religious skullcaps at the time. advertising read more afp - a young man suspected of having attacked a group of jewish youths with a hammer turned himself over to police thursday but denied involvement in the assault in lyon, a police source said. the man, aged about 20, was one of five people in police custody as of thursday evening as police continued investigating saturday's attack. the victims -- aged 18, 23 and 24 and all wearing jewish skullcaps -- were attacked as they left a service at a jewish school in the east-central city. police have said a group jostled and insulted the victims, then about 10 other assailants armed with hammers and bars joined in. the main suspect denied having used a hammer, but authorities think he did, the source said. civil liberties groups and leading political figures including the french prime minister have condemned the attack. the victims were recovering after being treated briefly in hospital. falah abu maria, a 53-year-old palestinian, was killed by idf fire during an arrest operation in beit ummar, north of hebron in the west bank on wednesday night. follow ynetnews on facebook and twitter a kfir brigade force entered the home of one of the wanted individuals and encountered resistance, including an attempt to choke one of the soldiers. falah abu maria the troops were pelted with rocks when they left the residence, requiring them to provide cover fire. abu maria was struck and died of his wounds. palestinians described the incident differently, saying that idf troops stormed the house and opened fire at one of abu maria's children. two bullets struck him in the pelvis, they claimed. abu maria reportedly attempted to help his son and was struck twice in the chest. the son underwent surgery and his condition is stable. another relative was lightly wounded by bullet fragments. on wednesday night, idf forces arrested six suspects in the west bank. four were charged with committing terrorism and rioting. the incident occurred less than 24 hours after a 21-year-old palestinian was killed on wednesday near jenin during riots that developed after the arrest of a palestinian. the central coast mariners can today inform members and supporters that 23-year-old defender storm roux has suffered a fractured fibula and ligament disruption that will require surgery today in sydney as a result of the incident that occurred last night at aami park. roux also sustained a dislocated shoulder that will be assessed later in the week. at approximately the 58th minute against melbourne city, roux landed awkwardly in defence that saw the new zealand international stretchered from the pitch and taken to hospital. roux stayed in melbourne overnight with club physiotherapist andrew nealon and will return to sydney this morning for immediate surgery on this right leg. the central coast mariners will provide an update on the condition on storm roux following his surgery that will determine the duration he will remain sidelined. the central coast mariners would like to thank the overwhelming support that storm has received from mariners supporters and the football community alike. a woman accused of racially abusing fellow passengers on a busy tram watched a film of her alleged rant when she appeared in the dock. emma west, 34, appeared at croydon magistrates' court charged with a racially aggravated public order offence. she cried as the three magistrates watched the footage, which has now been seen more than 11 million times online. an administrative error earlier led to ms west entering a not guilty plea. the court file was later amended to show she has not yet pleaded. ms west was remanded in custody until 3 january. the defendant, of new addington, was arrested after the footage, filmed on a croydon to wimbledon tram, was posted on youtube. a bail application was made by ms west's solicitor david ewings, but it was denied by the magistrate ian mcneal to protect her safety. she was remanded in custody to appear by videolink for a committal hearing at croydon magistrates' court. the bbc originally wanted tom baker, who played the fourth doctor in the original series, to be the doctor at the opening of the film, as this version of the doctor is the one most familiar to american audiences. the american executive producer philip david segal insisted on sylvester mccoy, as he was an avid doctor who fan and felt the seventh doctor still deserved a proper send-off. bbc one controller alan yentob and executive producer jo wright were very resistant to the return of sylvester mccoy, as they associated him with the decline in popularity and eventual cancellation of the original series. wright eventually said that mccoy could appear as long as he was "in it for a very short time and didn't say anything". this was revealed on a documentary made about the film. this book is a dark journey into a bewildering maze of memories and experiences, some real, some imagined. it is not a book you would pick if you want some lighthearted beach read that will pass the time while you doze in the sunshine and will be forgotten when the sun sets. if you like a book that presents you with an intriguing exercise of your intellect and your emotions, if you like a book that takes you places that a normal, sane, and even tempered person never experiences, and if you are willing to immerse yourself in a mind that is disintegrating right before your eyes, strap in and hang on. the author takes us on this journey down the dark alleys and rivers of jo-burg, sa, in an engrossing story well written. there are passages that are memorable because of their violence, and passages that steam with sexuality. but there are also passages that glitter with unexpected validity, describing the human condition and the all engrossing compulsion to write that bedevils the protagonist, and to some degree, all authors, poets, and playwrights. some of these passages are so well written, so perfectly constructed, you may find yourself, like me, tempted to highlight, transcribe, and quote them in your own future works or in your collection of inspirational and motivational messages. i highly recommend this book for those bold enough to open the creaky door and enter the dark cold room of mental dysfunction that plagues some of our most troubled souls. it is a visit that informs the reader about those extremes that makes normal a state to cling to desperately and appreciate joyfully. i did something as simple as taking a permanent marker and drawing 2 eyes and a smile on a rock and my 1 and a half year old son just loves it. it got me thinking about a community project in which i would end up drawing hundreds of the happy rocks and distributing them throughout the city. for every dollar that is donated it will fund 1 happy rock! at the end of the kickstarter project i will record myself drawing faces on each rock for each dollar donated no matter if the goal is surpassed. please do not donate a million dollars. you would knowingly be giving me arthritis. thank you to all who help fund this project, i hope it is just the first of many! motoring enthusiasts tell the story of britain's racing legends. chris hoy retraces colin mcrae's career accompanied by jimmy mcrae, ending with a race on the rac rally. olympic hero sir chris hoy tells the story of britain's first-ever world rally champion, colin mcrae. along with colin's father, jimmy, himself a five-time british rally champion, sir chris visits the scenes of colin's greatest rally driving triumphs. from exploring colin's roots as a scottish trials bikes champ to driving the route of the dakar rally over the dunes of the sahara desert, sir chris will re-live mcrae's career and be trained to drive sideways by another big fan - american rally superstar ken block. sir hoy's final challenge will be to swap his push bike for a monster subaru impreza world rally car on a rough and ready stage of the rac rally, the home of colin's famous 1995 victory. the state government has promised legislation to ensure motorists keep at least one metre away from cyclists, if it is re-elected. infrastructure minister david o'byrne said a labor government would conduct a trial mandating a minimum passing distance of one metre by drivers while overtaking riders, similar to a trial conducted in queensland. mr o'byrne said last year four cyclists were killed on tasmanian roads and the measures were needed to protect the state's growing number of cyclists. he also announced a new cycling safety steering committee to be formed by the road safety advisory council and said it was important that ract and tasmania police were involved, with ideas for ensuring that the 1m law was enforceable. mr o'byrne also announced a partnership with the amy gillett foundation. "as a priority we will also develop a tasmaniaspecific education and awareness campaign with the amy gillett foundation,'' he said. west bengal chief minister mamata banerjee on thursday renamed six townships in the state, officials said. of them, siliguri will be known as teesta, a major river in north bengal, and bolpur as 'gitabitan', a popular compilation of songs of rabindranath tagore. the twin industrial towns of asansol-durgapur will be known as 'agnibina', a collection of poems by poet kazi najrul islam. gajaldoba in malda district has been rechristened as 'mukta tirtha' while garia near this metropolis will become 'uttam city', after the late matinee idol uttam kumar, the officials said. banerjee renamed kalyani, the township in nadia district developed during the time of bidhan chandra roy's chief ministership, as 'samriddhi'. a seventh satellite township, 'viswa-bangla' will come up later near the eastern metropolitan by-pass in the city to house government employees, the officials said. banerjee had also renamed several stations in metro railway in the city when she was railway minister. the day we've been waiting for is finally here: with the season's more than halfway done, the san antonio spurs will play the golden state warriors for the first time. we'll get to see the dubs' number one offense take on sa's number one defense -- and the number three offense take on the number three defense for good measure. stephen curry vs tony parker, draymond green vs kawhi leonard, west coast swag vs alamo city stoicism. what more could you ask for? besides tim duncan playing, of course. earlier in the season, when the warriors were in the middle of their season opening historic win streak, i had a conversation with andrew flohr of golden state of mind, and we talked about what there was for a golden state fan to worry about. this time around, there's an actual game to discuss. the conversation is going on right now, and will continue throughout the day. this page will automatically update when each new section is finished, so check back or follow on twitter to know when the latest part of the conversation is ready to read. as always, we're using replyall to facilitate the conversation. for the curious, replyall is a fantastic and incredibly easy to use tool that enables conversations. since i started doing the fraternizing with the enemy series of conversations back in 2010, it is the innovation that changed the process from the clunky mess it was, to the breeze it is today. instead of cobbling together mounds of text from a dozen emails and wrestling with formatting, i can focus on the conversation and let a single line of html do the rest. anyone who can benefit from such a tool should definitely check them out. project esper is how we envision our medical technology being brought into the real world through the use of augmented reality. being able to use our highly detailed and accurate anatomical model in the context of real life will offer users an extra level of immersion, while also allowing for brand new use cases for our technology. in colleges, students will be able to simulate dissections from their dorm rooms, no longer needing a cadaver in a lab. in classrooms, educators will be able to isolate and enlarge specific body regions and organs, facilitating truly interactive groupwork between students. in clinics, practitioners will be able to show patients at a real-life scale and in real-time how their bodies should be working and contrast that with any condition the patient might be experiencing. video loading video unavailable click to play tap to play the video will start in 8 cancel play now a woman has been arrested after cctv footage appeared to show her deliberately igniting a petrol pump, setting a man's car on fire after he refuses to give her a cigarette. in the shocking clip, a woman in her mid-30s is seen approaching a man at a petrol station in jerusalem, israel, before turning away following a short conversation. she then begins to walk away from the man, whose back is turned, before seemingly changing her mind and walking back towards him. pulling a lighter from her pocket, she appears to casually light the petrol pump which is filling the man's car with fuel, sending the vehicle up in flames. according to local media reports, the driver's brother was sitting inside the car set ablaze, although no injuries were reported. police spokesman mickey rosenfeld confirmed the woman had been arrested. in a written statement, he said: "a woman approached a man while filling his petrol tank and asked for a cigarette. "when he refused to give it to her she pulled out a lighter from her pocket and ignited the petrol pump. "the car owner reacted quickly by pulling the pump that was on fire from his tank and fleeing. "petrol station workers extinguished the fire. "the woman was arrested shortly after the incident and in her investigation she denied the incident," the statement said. a magistrates' court in jerusalem has extended the woman's arrest for five days and sent her for psychological evaluations, an israeli news website reported. sleep is present and tightly regulated in every vertebrate species in which it has been carefully investigated, but what sleep is for remains a mystery. sleep is also present in invertebrates, and an extensive analysis in drosophila melanogaster has shown that sleep in fruit flies shows most of the fundamental features that characterize sleep in mammals. in drosophila, sleep consists of sustained periods of quiescence associated with an increased arousal threshold. fly sleep is modulated by several of the same stimulants and hypnotics that affect mammalian sleep. moreover, like in mammals, fly sleep shows remarkable interindividual variability. the expression of several genes involved in energy metabolism, synaptic plasticity, and the response to cellular stress varies in drosophila between sleep and wakefulness, and the same occurs in rodents. brain activity also changes in flies as a function of behavioral state. furthermore, drosophila sleep is tightly regulated in a circadian and homeostatic manner, and the homeostatic regulation is largely independent of the circadian regulation. after sleep deprivation, recovery sleep in flies is longer in duration and more consolidated, indicated by an increase in arousal threshold and fewer brief awakenings. finally, sleep deprivation in flies impairs vigilance and performance. because of the extensive similarities between flies and mammals, drosophila is now being used as a promising model system for the genetic dissection of sleep. over the last few years, mutagenesis screens have isolated several short sleeping mutants, a demonstration that single genes can have a powerful effect on a complex trait like sleep. members of the clergy would face jail for failing to report knowledge of sexual abuse gained during confession, with pressure growing to lift the confidentiality laws that protect them. exemptions exist for members of the clergy, medical workers and social workers among a small number of professions in nsw if they conceal knowledge of a crime from authorities if it was gained in their professional duties. yesterday julia gillard and tony abbott added their voices to calls that catholic priests not be exempt from having to report child abuse to police if they hear it in the confessional. mps said the forthcoming royal commission on sexual abuse should recommend that state criminal codes be harmonised to mandate priests to go to the police in child sexual abuse matters. according to a number of reports, much-maligned philadelphia eagles cornerbacks roc carmichael and curtis marsh have been released. both marsh and carmichael struggled majorly in the team's preseason games. it's far from a surprise to see they were cut. marsh is a former third round pick from the eagles' dreadful 2011 nfl draft class. carmichael spent time on the houston texans practice squad last year before being signed away by the eagles. with marsh and carmichael gone, the eagles cornerback position now comes into focus. the five remaining cornerbacks include: cary williams, bradley fletcher, nolan carroll ii, brandon boykin, and jaylen watkins. williams and fletcher are the returning 2013 starters on the outside. boykin is one of the best slot cornerbacks in the nfl on the inside. carroll ii projects to be the team's dime cornerback and also could push fletcher for a starting job still. watkins is a rookie fourth round pick with the versatility to also play safety. it appears watkins will serve as boykin's backup for the time being. with most of our games, our initial prototypes are made with simple shapes to get the gameplay working as soon as possible. with don't grind, the concept was so simple that we decided to set the project up properly right away. so we created the spritesheets and started building the scene as we worked on the gameplay. characters - injecting life into inanimate objects it's important with a game like don't grind to feel connected with what is going on. we really wanted to bring the characters to life but avoid the whole "grinding up cute cats and dogs", so we chose to use inanimate objects. there have been thousands of games where you put animals in blenders and stuff since way back in the early days of flash, and we didn't want to make one of those. north korea's mission to the united nations submitted a letter to the un security council on august 25 hinting at "tough countermeasures" and "catastrophic consequences" unless the council intervened to halt the ulchi freedom joint us-south korea military exercises presently taking place in the south. the letter warned: waging such provocative and aggressive joint military exercises on the korean peninsula, which has already turned into a tinderbox, is nothing short of hysterical conduct that adds fuel to the raging flames. acknowledging that the us-south korea joint military exercises constitute a grave threat to the peace and security of the world, as well as those of the korean peninsula, the dpr korea strongly requests the unsc to discuss the issue of the joint military exercises as an emergency agenda item", the letter stated, according to the korea central news agency. should the unsc ignore the request from the dpr korea once again, it will become self-evident that the unsc has ceased to remain a body that assumes the primary responsibility for the maintenance of international peace and security, but been reduced into a marionette and a political instrument of the us now that the us has blatantly manifested its hostile intention towards the dpr korea by waging aggressive joint military exercises, despite the repeated warnings from the latter against its reckless behavior, the dpr korea has every reason to respond with tough countermeasures as an exercise of its right to self-defense and the us shall be held totally accountable for the catastrophic consequences to follow. two patent applications filed by apple and published to the us patent and trademark office have shed some light on what the company could have in store for users of future generations of the iphone and ipad. the first is a stylus with multi-touch sensors along the body, which can determine finger position and be used for gesture controls on the corresponding device. for example, running a finger up the stylus may allow users to scroll. or if a user rotates the stylus in their hand, a corresponding action could take place on an on-screen object. if a user grips the stylus tighter it could change the accuracy or density of the drawing on-screen. this could potentially be a feature for the next generation of the apple pencil, but as with all patent applications there's no guarantee this will make it into a consumer product. apple also filed for a patent on technology that would allow it to determine which hand a user is currently using on a device and customize the ui for left- or right-handed use. apple can use a number of sensors to detect which hand a user is using, including the proximity sensor, accelerometer, and even touch id. this could help alleviate the issues people have with bigger phones like the iphone 6s plus. given that apple continues to employ its reachability feature on the bigger phone, it's possible that it will continue to receive improvements over the coming years. vandals desecrated headstones in the jewish section of a cemetery in hertfordshire, uk. witnesses said that seven headstones were toppled over, and two others were damaged. the hertfordshire cemetery is a universal one, with sections marked off for different religions and communities. the jewish section of the cemetery is small, and local community leaders said that there was no question that the desecrations were aimed at jews specifically. police opened an investigation, but closed it after saying that there were no leads in the case. the closure of the case has upset the jewish community to a great extent. the community has asked for protection for the jewish section of the cemetery, but that request, too, was rebuffed. the cemetery has been struck by vandals in the past, and officials have on those occasions refused to install preventive measures. no reason was given for the refusal. the town has been the scene of other anti-semitic incidents as well. in 2013, aa deputy police and crime commissioner in resigned after retweeting a quote by adolf hitler. a dog walker was seen throwing a hand grenade for a pet to chase by an off-duty explosives expert, police said. the grenade, found earlier and safely removed, is the fifth to wash up on a harwich beach in the past five weeks. another grenade found near west end lane on saturday was detonated by experts and three others were found near lower marine parade on 12 july. essex police said a sunken wartime crate may have been disturbed, causing the grenades to appear on the beach. "that crate might be breaking up or has been disturbed by dredging in the port, and has resulted in these five devices being washed ashore along the same stretch of beach," insp paul butcher said. the latest grenade was found earlier at marine parade. once retrieved from the dog owner it was removed by bomb disposal officers. insp butcher said people should be "vigilant" if visiting the beach and call the police if they found anything that could be an explosive. the proprietor of renowned astoria food cart the king of falafel and shawarma is slated to open his first brick-and-mortar location at the end of january, as first reported by dnainfo. food cart master freddy zeideia will be serving an expanded menu at the 30-seat restaurant, including charcoal-grilled kebabs, hummus, and tabouli. a post to the king of falafel's facebook page touts a january 30 grand opening. the restaurant at 30-15 broadway is just a block away from the original cart, which will still be operating. zeideia has been working in food since he opened his first cart close to 15 years ago, a project he started after he quit driving a cab. in 2010, he won a vendy award for his falafel and shawarma. he makes the white sauce, tahini, and hot sauce from scratch, and the best seller is the chicken platter, made with boneless chicken thighs that are marinated overnight. australia's spy agencies should be forced to disclose any security concerns they would have with a chinese government-owned firm taking control of electricity assets before nsw voters go to the polls on saturday, labor insists. in a fiery speech in federal parliament late on tuesday, labor senator sam dastyari called on the abbott government to make public the view of domestic security experts at asio on the proposed "poles and wires" privatisation. his intervention into the state campaign came amid questions over which foreign investors premier mike baird has met with in relation to the sale. fairfax media can reveal liu zhenya, the president of the communist government-owned state grid corp of china, expected to be a frontrunner in the power auction, met mr baird at a business roundtable function in beijing in september. the latest episode follows an announcement by hainan province in southern china last week that chinese vessels would board and search ships in contested areas of the sea, which includes vital shipping lanes through which more than a third of global trade moves. the new tensions illustrate in stark terms the competition in the south china sea for what are believed to be sizeable deposits of oil and gas. earlier this year, china's third-largest energy company, state-owned china national offshore oil corporation, launched new equipment that would allow china to drill in deep water for the first time. the escalation in the south china sea comes less than a month after xi jinping took office as china's leader. mr xi appears to have taken a particular interest in the south china sea and the serious dispute between china and japan over the islands known as diaoyu in china and as senkaku in japan. whether any of china's most recent actions in the south china sea were associated with mr xi was not clear. but mr xi does lead a small group of policymakers clustered in the maritime rights office, according to zhu feng, a professor of international relations at peking university, and other chinese experts. a website run by petrovietnam reported the company's exploration vessel binh minh 02 had its seismic cable severed by a chinese fishing vessel last friday. in may last year, the vietnamese authorities said a similar cable of the binh minh 02 was cut by three chinese surveillance ships, resulting in weeks of anti-china protests in hanoi. pittsburgh steelers doctors are hopeful, though hardly optimistic, that quarterback ben roethlisberger will be able to return from his rib and shoulder injuries dec. 2 against the baltimore ravens, according to a source familiar with the situation. steelers doctors believe roethlisberger will miss three weeks, though the team has not abandoned hope that he may miss only two games and be able to return for the rematch against the ravens. roethlisberger was ruled out of sunday night's game against the ravens and is not expected to play next sunday at cleveland. though roethlisberger said the injury to his first rib on his right side threatened his aorta, a source said doctors believe the greater threat is to the surrounding arteries, vessels and soft tissue. roethlisberger was in as much pain friday as he was monday, a source said, and the timetable for his return is somewhat unpredictable. the injury is rare and needs to heal itself -- there's no treatment or procedure that can fix it quicker. while roethlisberger missed sunday night's 13-10 loss to the ravens, running back rashard mendenhall started and rushed 11 times for 33 yards. and safety ryan clark, who has suffered two concussions in the last three weeks, told espn that he would wear a special helmet which is one size bigger than usual and packed with bullet-proof kevlar against the ravens. espn's rachel nichols contributed to this report. when bungie split with microsoft and parted ways with halo, not everyone was interested in saying goodbye. frank o' connor decided to stay with the halo universe and serve as the franchise development director for 343 industries. since he was heavily involved in the development, we talked to him about how halo 4's narrative will connect with halo 3 and how the formation of a new team has affected the tone of the series. watch the video below to see what he has to say, and feel free to check out this bonus portion of the interview on our youtube channel in which he talks about the difference in studio cultures between bungie and 343 industries. to learn more about halo 4, be sure to check in on our content hub below where we will be rolling out videos and features throughout the month. carter is the fourth defensive starter to be put on injured reserve with lee, safety barry church and defensive end kenyon coleman. cornerback orlando scandrick remains on the active roster despite undergoing left hand surgery last friday. one of the cowboys' strengths coming into this season was their linebacker corps, with demarcus ware and anthony spencer on the outside in their 3-4 scheme and lee and carter on the inside. overall roster depth is not among dallas' strengths, and so the losses of their two starting inside linebackers isn't going to be easy for them to overcome. they will need to rely even more on brandon carr and rookie morris claiborne as shutdown cornerbacks to help cover their weaknesses up front and at safety, and there are liable to be games down the stretch in which the league's no. 8-ranked defense gives up more yards and points than it should to apparently inferior opponents. this latest significant injury on defense also puts more pressure on tony romo and the cowboys' offense to deliver more consistent production, something that could be helped if running back demarco murray ever returns from his foot injury. the cowboys are 5-6, two games out of first place in the nfc east and one game behind the nfc's final wild-card spot with five games to play. they host the eagles this sunday night. bloemfontein - a farmer who was shot and wounded by his young gardener fought back as the second shot misfired, managing to scare off his attacker. volksblad reported that the gardener had first shot the domestic worker on the farm near bloemfontein and then had waited for leonard haasbroek, 58, to come home. the gardener, who is apparently still a minor, worked in the garden on thursdays. after firing the first shot, he tried to shoot haasbroek a second time but the firearm jammed, which was when haasbroek jumped him to disarm him. the gardener wriggled free of his jacket and jersey and ran off but was apprehended by a police officer and arrested. only a few rands were missing from a wallet and it is unclear what the motive for the attack was. both the wounded farmer and the domestic worker - who was shot in the arm - were taken to hospital. think the windows xp workstation you use at the office is ancient? it doesn't hold a candle next to what the grand rapids public school district is using to control its climate systems. all 19 schools covered by the authority depend on a nearly 30-year-old commodore amiga 2000 to automate their air conditioning and heating. it communicates to the other schools using a pokey 1,200 baud modem and a wireless radio so behind the times that it occasionally interferes with maintenance workers' walkie talkies. oh, and a high school student wrote the necessary code -- if something goes wrong, the district has to contact the now middle-aged programmer and hope that he can fix it. it's a testament to the dependability of the amiga in question, but you probably wouldn't want to trust the well-being of thousands of students to a computer that's probably older than some of the teachers. born october 16, 1854 died november 30, 1900 website genre influences oscar fingal o'flahertie wills wilde was an irish playwright, poet, and author of numerous short stories, and one novel. known for his biting wit, and a plentitude of aphorisms, he became one of the most successful playwrights of the late victorian era in london, and one of the greatest celebrities of his day. several of his plays continue to be widely performed, especially the importance of being earnest. as the result of a widely covered series of trials, wilde suffered a dramatic downfall and was imprisoned for two years hard labour after being convicted of "gross indecency" with other men. after wilde was released from prison he set sail for dieppe by the night ferry. he never returned to ireland or britain, and died in poverty. the pressure is mounting on the boston bruins, and it's hardly exclusive to the players. the front office could reportedly see a complete overhaul should the team fail to hang on to their postseason position. per darren dreger on nbc's first intermission broadcast: if the bruins don't qualify for the postseason, then absolutely you could see full front office change in the offseason. we're talking about the dismissal of peter chiarelli or the head coach, claude julien. both these guys know the amount of pressure that they're feeling right now. they know it because they're living it. dreger adds that the bruins are desperately working the phones in an effort to hold off the hard-charging philadelphia flyers, who now sit seven points back, and more importantly, the florida panthers, who are three points behind. emre can is set to hand jurgen klopp a massive boost ahead of liverpool fc 's europa league semi-final second leg showdown with villarreal on thursday after returning to training following an ankle ligament injury. there were fears that the 22-year-old midfielder could miss the remainder of the season after he injured ankle ligaments in the 4-3 victory over dortmund in the europa league quarter final last month, but he has recovered quicker than expected. can took part in a training session yesterday with players who didn't start the 3-1 defeat to swansea on sunday afternoon, and he could now come into contention for a starting berth in klopp's side on thursday evening. he will be carefully assessed by klopp and liverpool's medical staff over the next few days as liverpool prepare for what is now the biggest game of their season. the reds will look to overturn a 1-0 deficit from the first leg after villarreal's 92nd-minute winner in spain last week. batman: arkham origins stars noted voice actors roger craig smith as batman and troy baker as joker, reports joystiq. smith replaces longtime batman voice actor kevin conroy; it was initially reported that conroy would not appear in arkham origins at all, but he said last week that he is involved with the franchise in some capacity. smith's credits include ezio auditore da firenze in the assassin's creed games and chris redfield in the resident evil series. baker most recently lent his voice to bioshock infinite protagonist booker dewitt, and stars as joel, the male lead in naughty dog's upcoming survival title the last of us. he also appeared in batman: arkham city as the actor behind two-face and robin. batman: arkham origins, which is in development at wb games montreal, launches oct. 25 on windows pc, xbox 360, playstation 3 and wii u. check out our arkham origins interview and hands-on preview here. not surprisingly, a bus can hold a much larger battery than just about any regular car. the catalyst e2 max carries 660kwh, or nearly nine times the capacity of a 75kwh tesla model s. also, proterra was driving in optimal conditions, with no passengers, no stops and a gentle test track. it'd be another story with a fully-laden bus wending its way through a city. even so, that kind of range is very promising. in many cases, it could likely handle a long bus route for several hours -- it might only need to recharge at the end of a driver's shift. while it could take an hour or more to top up even with proterra's fast charging system, bus drivers are no strangers to changing vehicles. the first e2 series buses are due to reach los angeles streets later in 2017, so it might not be long before you can witness this longevity first-hand. kathmandu, dec 30: amid concerns of india over the proposed military drill, china on thursday officially announced that it is holding joint military exercise with nepal next year. speaking at a monthly news conference, chinese defense ministry spokesperson yang yujun said china and nepal had been in "initial communication" on the proposed military exercise, and that the details would be released in due course of time. although nepal has been holding joint military exercises with other countries including india and the united states, this is the first nepali military would be holding such an exercise with china. india, which traditionally considers nepal as its sphere of influence, has grown concerned with the announcement of military drill with its strategic rival in the region. as per the initial plan, the joint drill on dealing with hostage scenario involving international terror groups is scheduled to be held in february next year. i'm happy to announce that as of yesterday light table has joined a host of amazing startups for the summer 2012 batch of ycombinator. under the guidance of yc we believe we have the best possible chance to not just make light table a reality, but to help craft a new future for the way we create software. this does, however, mean that circumstances have changed. we rallied together as a community to ensure that this project had a future. while being a part of yc doesn't affect our plans or change our use of kickstarter as a means of accelerating the release of light table, many pledged with the explicit purpose of making sure that it had a chance. with yc that chance is now safe and we wanted to let our supporters know there will be no hard feelings if this changes your desire to pledge. we want to thank you all the same for being a part of the push that has gotten us this far. in the end, the important part is that we were able to come together around this ideal and now we can work to make it a reality. thank you to everyone who has helped get us here and i look forward to showing you some of the work we've been doing in the next few days. a french diplomat has been formally charged with raping his three-year-old daughter, at a pre-trial hearing in the southern indian city of bangalore. pascal mazurier, 40, who worked as a consular official, denies the charges. he is set to file a petition with the high court asking for the case to be dismissed for lack of evidence. a lower court in bangalore dismissed a similar plea and ordered police to go ahead and press formal charges. a date for the trial is to be set this week. at the sessions court last month lawyers for mr mazurier argued there was insufficient evidence against him, but judge shubha gowdar dismissed their arguments and ruled he should stand trial. he was arrested in june 2012, after his wife filed a complaint. he spent months in jail before being released on bail. a judge in new zealand fed up with parents bestowing bizarre names on their offspring has given a girl named talula does the hula from hawaii the chance to change hers. judge rob murfitt has ruled that the girl, 9, become a ward of the court so her name can be changed. the girl was involved in a custody battle between her separated parents. in his ruling made public thursday, murfitt expressed concern at the "very poor judgment" shown by the parents in selecting the moniker. "it makes a fool of the child and sets her up with a social disability and handicap, unnecessarily," said murfitt. the court heard that the girl was so embarrassed by her name that she never even told her friends. instead, she told people to call her k, her lawyer told the family court in the port city of new plymouth, located on the west coast of the north island. the ruling was made in february, but became public thursday when it was published in law reports. the girl's new name will not be made public in order to protect her identity. in his ruling, murfitt cited a list of strange names given to children in new zealand. he said names blocked by registration officials included yeah detroit, keenan got lucy and sex fruit, while number 16 bus shelter and violence were allowed. new zealand law does not allow names that would cause offence to a reasonable person, among other conditions, said brian clarke, the registrar general of births, deaths and marriages. clarke said officials usually talked to parents who proposed unusual names to convince them of the potential embarrassment for the child. blackburn rovers wish to announce that manager owen coyle has left his role at ewood park by mutual agreement. assistant manager sandy stewart, first team coach john henry and goalkeeping coach phil hughes have also left the club. the decision has been taken in order to give the club the best possible chance of climbing to a position of safety in the championship in the remaining 15 games, which starts with the big trip to burton albion on friday night. the club would like to place on record its thanks to owen and his staff for all their efforts this season and we wish them well for the future. the search for a new manager will begin with immediate effect. no further comments will be made at this stage. i just got off the phone with jin wong and he was kind enough to answer a few questions on the extension of salvador perez. first, i asked him about which side approach who for the deal. he did not exactly know for sure since the team, the player and the player's agent are constantly in contact. he knows that dayton moore had a desire to lock him up for a while. wong said that the royals and perez began the discussions on the contract before february 19th when the head office moved operations to arizona. then i asked him if there was any deals like this one in the future. he said the royals would love to as many of these deals in place if it makes sense for the team and the player. the key is for both sides to want to have a new long term deal. in perez's instance, both sides could find a middle ground. finally, i asked him how the royals were able give a player with little mlb experience a long guaranteed deal. much of the team's decision was based on input from scouts. he said it is tough to statistically analyze all the aspects of a catcher. the team mainly used player comparisons to look for similar catchers and how they ended up performing. the team believes perez is good defensive catcher and good in the clubhouse. they expect his defense and offense to improve in the future. roor - some of the finest quality hand-blown glass bongs and accessories in our catalog. roor bongs are manufactured in germany by world-renowned glass blower martin birzle and his team of glass-blowing experts. as an interesting fact that may or may not have been inspiration to the name. rohr is a pipe in german and this brand is actually pronounced more like roar. roor could be a fun and stylish play on this word. each roor bong bears the signature of its creator and all roor glass bongs and accessories are blown to perfection from the finest quality borosilicate glass. glass wall thickness ranges from 2mm to 7mm thick. among discerning connoisseur smokers, roor has become a byword for elite glass smoking equipment. like rolex, rolls-royce or swarovski, the roor brand is widely regarded as a luxury name within its field. here at everyone does it, we carry stock of hundreds of roor glass bongs such as 250 series blue, bong 100 rasta logo, bong icemaster 5mm and accessories. browse our collection and choose your new roor glass bong for a lifetime of smoking pleasure. counter logic gaming is reportedly set to drop out of counter-strike, according to a report by independent journalist jarek "dekay" lewis. earlier this week, dekay reported in-game leader pujan "fns" mehta was leaving the organization due to an internal dispute with the team. dekay is now reporting that due to financial issues, clg is choosing to stop competing in cs:go and sell off its players' contracts. clg recently failed to qualify for the esl pro league season 6 finals and was unable to make it out of the americas minor championship, failing to qualify for the eleague major: boston offline qualifier. the team lost several strong players over the past year, and has struggled to remain competitive with top north american teams. clg first entered cs:go in 2015 and have been considered one of the stronger na cs:go rosters in the past. daniel rosen is a news editor for thescore esports. you can follow him on twitter. you can choose from many types of tool belts or bags, but an electrician's tool belt will include pockets to store small parts you're working with on one side and larger pockets on the opposite side for various hand tools. you'll also want a loop for your hammer and a hook to hang electrical tape to keep it handy. try to find a belt that doesn't add a lot of weight to your body, which will leave you worn out early in the day. you should only need around 4 pockets, plus loops, although you can get by with less if you know you only require a couple of hand tools for the day's work. you'll also want a high quality belt with good stitching and rivets as well as an adjustable buckle to accommodate your clothes. mississippi lays claim to some of the densest concentrations of prehistoric archaeological sites of any state, and none of these sites are more striking than the massive earthen mounds that dot the landscape. constructed from about two thousand to a few hundred years ago, these burial mounds, platform mounds, and others hold mysteries that archaeologists are still unraveling today. the mississippi mounds trail links a number of the best-studied and most accessible mounds in the state. each of the mounds on the trail can be viewed from public roadways and feature accompanying markers. mississippi mound sites mark centers of social and political authority. every mound has its own chapter to tell in the unfolding story of the human past. opportunities to discover more about these mounds and their builders disappear daily as erosion, farming, urban development, and looting continue to degrade these sites. untold numbers of the old monuments have already been lost, and secrets of our nation's past have vanished with them. the mounds that remain stand as a testament to the vitality, diversity, and creativity of their makers, who developed the complex societies of long ago. it is up to us to protect the mounds that are left so that future generations can continue to experience the wonder of these dramatic memorials of ancient times. the san antonio spurs and the milwaukee bucks have come to terms on a trade that will send bruce bowen, fabricio oberto and kurt thomas to the bucks for richard jefferson. though i hate seeing bruce bowen leaving the spurs as when we here in san antonio think of bowen we think of san antonio not because of what he has done on the court but for the community. thomas and oberto really did not establish many minutes and with the addition of jefferson it surely gave the spurs no hesitation to send those two out. bowen will be missed with his defense but jefferson brings in his own and more offense to the spurs too. jefferson is a big addition to the spurs and i hope this is not the only move we make. bruce bowen good luck in milwaukee, you surely will be missed. we all know that movies don't always do such a great job of accurately representing real life, but that has never been more obvious than when you're watching an on-screen sex scene. in film, women often seem to orgasm at the drop of a hat -- or an orchid petal in the case of "40 days and 40 nights" -- and do all sorts of yodeling while they're at it. most of us know that in reality, a woman's body usually doesn't work that way. to capture just how absurd some of these performances are, we've rounded up some of the least believable movie orgasms into one epic mashup. from kristen bell's aerobic climax in "forgetting sarah marshall," to the pleasure machine in "barbarella," to katherine heigl's dinner table orgasm in "the ugly truth," we hope these scenes will make you glad that your real sex life is nothing like the movies. muslim women should delete their facebook accounts, not wear trousers or leave the house without their husband's permission under controversial rules published by british islamic associations. online advice on the conduct of muslim women has been published by the green lane masjid in birmingham which says women should not wear trousers as they "show off the detail of their bodies", even in front of their husbands, according to the times. it comes after the blackburn muslim association, which is an affiliate of the muslim council of britain, stated women should not be able to travel further than 48 miles without a male chaperone. justine greening, the international development secretary, criticised the advice from blackburn muslim association as "disgraceful" and said that such views had "no place" in modern britain. criticism is especially telling when it comes from someone who should be close to you. sarah palin is already the most famous alaskan ever, as well as the powerful governor of a proud state, which makes last saturday's editorial in her local paper endorsing barack obama all the more commendable. the anchorage daily news could have been forgiven had it put aside its doubts to back the republican ticket and the local girl. after all, were she ever to become vice president, ms palin would no doubt shower on alaska all the pork-barrel goodies her running mate john mccain has been promising to abolish. it takes guts to show editorial independence in such circumstances. but alaska's only big paper has managed to do it. its reporting has been bold and informed ever since mr mccain made his surprise pick at the end of the summer. while the big papers were recovering from the shock, and trying to work out how to reach her hometown of wasilla, the anchorage daily news was ready with facts about her less-than-wholesome record as state governor. in its editorial at the weekend the paper was explicit about the dangers of what it called "an improbable and highly memorable event". "despite her formidable gifts, few who have worked closely with the governor would argue she is truly ready to assume command of the most important, powerful nation on earth," the editorial concluded. the anchorage daily news may not swing many votes in alaska. but america should give thanks for the warning. this volume deals with the religious practices of the family in the ancient babylonian, syrian, and israelite civilizations. on the basis of a wealth of documents from both the private and the literary realm, the book gives an exhaustive description and analysis of the rites of the ancestor cult and the devotion to local gods. the author demonstrates the role of these two aspects of family religion in the identity construction of its followers. the section dealing with israel pays particular attention to the relationship between family religion and state religion. the emergence of the state religion under king saul marked the beginning of a competition between civil and private religion. though the two had great influence upon each other, the tension between them was never resolved. a study of their interaction proves to be a key for the understanding of the development of israelite religion during the monarchic period. the book is of particular importance to biblical scholars, assyriologists, and all those interested in the history of ancient near eastern religion. please help us open fort funston during the gov't shutdown! right now it's dangerous with people parking on the highway. the ggnra has agreed to open the parking lot if we remove the trash and clean the porta potties. sfdog has asked the ggnra to open the parking lot at fort funston during the partial government shutdown. people are continuing to access and use fort funston despite the closed lot and are instead parking alongside the highway. the limited, narrow shoulder parking is routinely packed with parked cars that stretch from the park entrance to as far as the eye can see. many people unload their young children and pets from the highway side of their car, further congesting traffic as they then walk along the shoulder or in the highway lane on their way to the beach. the current situation isn't safe for people or their pets. the coming rise of autonomous vehicles has already sparked fears that cars immune to human error won't incur the speeding and parking fines that keep city coffers stuffed. but there will be a healthy gap between the technology's arrival and its ubiquity. that's what makes the brigade useful. brigade is a conceptual driverless motorcycle i have designed to keep the peace in small towns, and keep human officers doing more important work. carrying a suite of cameras, sensors, projectors, and speakers, the electric two-wheeler would stay upright thanks to a built-in gyroscope. charles bombardier about a mechanical engineer and a member of the family whose aerospace and transportation company builds trains, planes, and more, bombardier's at his best when he ignores pesky things like budgets, timelines, and contemporary physics. since 2013, he's run a blog cataloging more than 200 concepts, each a fantastic, farfetched new way for people to travel through land, air, water, and space. his ideas are out there, but it's bombardier's sort of creative thinking that keeps us moving forward. like a combination of kitt, a red light camera, and a meter maid, brigade would silently patrol the streets, looking for things like expired registrations and illegally parked cars. it would file timestamped video evidence with the municipal court and email the owner a citation. for offenses like speeding, brigade wouldn't even bother to stop, instead alerting the offender with a flashing light and audio message. if the driver ignores the admonition, brigade would follow him and alert nearby, human cops. now, this concept is about more than issuing tickets. each unit doing the grunt work of patrolling for low-level offenders would free police officers to more vital tasks, like investigating violent crimes and truly keeping the streets safe. thanks to montreal-based freelance industrial designer eduardo arndt, who produced these renderings of the brigade concept. this is 'sly cooper and the thievious donutus', a short video of a racoon sneaking out of the ceiling at a donut shop to steal an orange flavored donut bar. not the flavor i would have chosen, but it looks like time was of the essence. you know, sometimes i wish i was a racoon who lived in the attic of a donut shop. doesn't seem like too bad a life. at least until the guys from the animal control company come. then life gets shitty real quick. hit the jump for the video while i make a run to the donut shop for a couple jelly-filled and a few cartons of chocolate milk. thanks to me, for not being afraid to share my dream of being a racoon living in the attic above a donut shop. that was very brave of me. representatives from oman, qatar and yemen met with a minister from the israeli prime minister's office member of knesset ayoob kara and the israeli ambassador on wednesday night in ecuador in order to discuss developments in us president donald trump's upcoming peace initiative to jump-start stalled talks between israelis and palestinians. the meeting was, for the first time, made public and displayed a willingness from all parties to advance peace negotiations between palestinians and israelis. minister kara spoke with the presidents of guatemala, ecuador and paraguay and asked them to join with israel in order to combat the global threat of terror. the minister added that president trump and israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu are aligned on every step of the new peace initiative in the middle east and there has been progress made on the topic. supporting hospital broadcasting in the uk. the hospital broadcasting association is the national charity that supports and promotes hospital broadcasting in the uk. we currently have over 200 individual broadcasting stations, representing 1000s of volunteers. patients in many uk hospitals benefit from programmes designed to make life better for people in hospital and aid their recovery. the hospital broadcasting association provides support, training and guidance to empower volunteers to provide the best service they can. support and training we support member stations and their volunteers through both representation and action. the hba liaises with charity regulators, broadcast and licencing bodies, and commercial organisations supporting hospital radio and highlighting the benefits of music and light entertainment in the hyper-local environment of individual hospitals or nhs trusts. the hba also offers guidance and training to our member stations whether it is training presenters in interview techniques or guiding a management committee in the development of their station. we hold regular training events across the uk as well as an annual national conference. the best of hospital radio each march the hba hosts the national hospital radio awards. this event showcases the stations and presenters who spend their free time perfecting their art of broadcasting as well as celebrating the shining beacons of a niche charitable industry. our patron and ambassadors the hba is proud of the support from alan dedicoat, the voice of the balls and strictly come dancing, as the patron of the hospital broadcasting association. big cities tend to get all the love. we here at livability know that there are great stories to be told in smaller places, too. our ranking of the 2014 top 100 best places to live focuses on small to mid-sized cities and what makes them great places to live and work. we worked with trusted partners, stellar advisors, and the best public and private data sources to develop our ranking. the cities on the list excelled in our criteria. these towns are places where residents are able to take full advantage of a wide variety of amenities and offerings - everything from parks and museums to different commuting options to hospitals. spend some time getting to know them and when it comes time for your next move, maybe you'll think small. cremation urns and cremation jewelry for ashes is just part of the solution. cremation solutions strives to support the people who choose cremation. we offer many cremation urns for ashes and jewelry for ashes and lockets that hold ashes, but have special focus on those that choose scattering ashes. we are a resource for creating cremation ash scattering ceremonies, or any kind of funeral ceremony. cremation solutions has been helping people with the many tough decisions involved in planning cremation services and providing a dignified and memorable funeral event for loved ones who have passed on for many years. owner, jeff staab, was a funeral director and counselor to bereaved families and friends for over 20 years. realizing that the industry didn't provide adequate assistance and methods for the scattering of ashes, he developed cremation solutions to provide support for those who are faced with the many options that cremation allows. now cremation solutions has assembled one of the most innovative collections of cremation products to celebrate and memorialize the lives of our departed loved ones. bill shorten's chief spin doctor, kimberley gardiner, is leaving the opposition leader's office by mutual agreement following an internal review ahead of the next election. in a move that will be interpreted as the opposition leader looking to sharpen his political messaging and re-connect with voters in 2016 after falling well behind prime minister malcolm turnbull in the opinion polls, ms gardiner is leaving the role of communications director after more than three years working for mr shorten. the review of mr shorten's office was undertaken by chief of staff cameron milner, a former queensland labor state secretary who replaced ken macpherson as chief of staff in september last year. ms gardiner was a long serving staffer to julia gillard when she was deputy prime minister and worked for mr shorten when he was a minister in the former labor government as well as in opposition. she has clocked up almost a decade of service in total with the alp, including time with former queensland premier anna bligh, as well as for afl club st kilda. it's spring, which means that the animal kingdom is feeling as frisky as the rest of us! birds are welcoming their newly hatched chicks, bees are buzzing merrily around in an attempt to pollinate new blooms, and butterflies will soon be escaping from their cocoons. these are all representations of the season of new life, and are worthy of celebration! add bird houses and nests to your decorations, and don't forget a few eggs as well. butterflies, who represent transformation, will be drawn to specific plants, so if you'd like to welcome some to your garden, plant a butterfly bush - for indoor decor, any butterfly artwork will help make your home feel more seasonal. in some cultures, bees are associated with wisdom and the spirit realm - decorate with bees, honey and hives to help keep that communication door open at beltane! crusaders crashed out of the champions league second qualifying round to fc copenhagen, losing 6-0 in the away leg on tuesday, and 9-0 on aggregate. andrija pavlovic opened the scoring with a cool finish and andy mitchell headed christoffer remmer's cross into his own net just before half-time. andreas cornelius headed powerfully home and then rasmus falk fired in the fourth from close range. jan gregus netted with a fine free-kick and cornelius grabbed his second. trailing 3-0 from the first leg, the irish league champions travelled to the danish capital without skipper colin coates, who was on holiday. the hosts had early chances, with cornelius heading wide and then crossing for pavlovic, who was unable to find the net. pavlovic made no mistake from 12 yards out in the 15th minute, however, finishing off a pass from falk with style. kasper kusk missed from five yards out, before the unfortunate mitchell scored an own goal just before the interval. cornelius' back-post header three minutes after the resumption made it 3-0, before falk scored his second of the tie and gregus beat sean o'neill with a well-taken free-kick. cornelius notched his third goal of the tie with 14 minutes remaining as his side set up a third qualifying round meeting with romanian champions astra giurgiu. crusaders' thoughts will turn to the defence of their premiership title, which begins with the visit of ballymena united on 6 august. for a long time we've been going with the same scariest jobs chart ever, which we ran this morning. it shows how bad this "recovery" has been compared to past ones. it's really scary, but we're confident that we have a new winner. it shows the average duration of unemployment, and it's skyrocketing without any hint of slowing down. even though we're "creating jobs" each month, this would seem to point to a large, brewing, structural unemployment problem, with a significant chunk of the population permanently out of the workforce. historically, we've never seen anything like this, and the fact that we only had one down-blip during the recovery is stunning. but this isn't the only horrible new chart this month. we've compiled several more that will ruin your weekend. everyone hates captchas, those garbled text images that you must retype to prove you're a human being. at best they're an annoyance, but often they are downright incomprehensible. and the worst part is that attackers are getting around them fairly easily. today leap marketing technologies announces nucaptcha, a captcha that uses a video instead of a still image. users are instructed to type a few of the moving characters on the screen. try it yourself, after the jump. nucaptcha demo leap claims that humans are good at making such distinctions, but that automating the reading of such images would be very difficult. in fact, while there have been many attempts to automate the reading of captchas, leap says this isn't how it's done in the real world. a new york times article from april claims that captcha reading sweat shops in india, bangladesh and china have become popular with spammers and this is where the action is. but the economics of such outsourcing depend on the workers being able to solve a certain minimum number of captchas, nucaptcha can mess with these economics by increasing the time of the video before it can be solved if the system detects signs of a captcha factory. all these settings are controllable by the site administrators. nucaptcha is not alone in trying to defeat such systems, but if they really can increase the time to solve in such cases and not affect normal users too much with it, then they could make captcha factories unprofitable. amid the hundreds of retail outlets clamouring for your dollar at melbourne central shopping centre is an unlikely balm for the soul. the centre's owners, the gpt group, have quietly set up a free lending library. it's proved a hit and it's here to stay. at first glance the little library - on a busy level-two through-way from swanston street to the station - seems full of dog-eared 1970s potboilers. melbourne central's justin shannon in the little library at the shopping centre that operates on an honour system. credit:simon o'dwyer a closer scan of the shelves yesterday revealed a biography of war hero sir edward dunlop; kevin morgan's gun alley, about a 1920s melbourne murder; the michael connelly crime novel lost light; and simone de beauvoir's the second sex. but today the titles could be different, says melbourne central general manager justin shannon. in the first two weeks after it opened two months ago, the library turned over about 500 books. the first 1000 came from an appeal for donations via facebook and twitter, and gpt bought other books from op shops. getting on a plane to see someplace new isn't as simple as it used to be. first, there's the issue of limited vacation days. second, there's the rising price of airfare. third, there are always horridly long lines and delays at the airport. the hassle that is traveling almost doesn't seem worth it anymore. unless of course, there's the promise of great chocolate at the end of the trip. there are various reasons that people get up and go places -- family, work, cronuts -- but the best reason is for chocolate. if you're already hip to this information, we've got a gift for you: an infographic that highlights the best places in the world to go for chocolate. think of it as your new itinerary. everyone knows that austria creates the most beautiful things out of chocolate. and it's no secret that the belgians are experts at making the edible equivalent of heaven out of cocoa beans. but, the world is vast, my friends -- and europe is not the only place that does chocolate well. new zealand has an extreme chocolate drink worth writing home about. and argentina mixes chocolate with dulce de leche. get your passports ready, and discover the world of chocolate. cornered in the tiny building of the ecuadorian embassy in the united kingdom for half a decade, wikileaks founder julian assange and his team are undeterred, continuing to release troves of important documents, even as the personal legal jeopardy he faces threatens to undermine the very organisation he leads and fracture the movement it inspired. filmmaker laura poitras finds herself caught between the motives and contradictions of assange and his inner circle. filmed over six years, risk is a complex and volatile character study of the forces that crescendo with a high-stakes election year in the united states and its controversial aftermath. in a world order where a single keystroke can alter history, risk is a nuanced and curious portrait of power, betrayal, truth, and sacrifice. how much of your own life are you willing to risk? baton rouge - on monday, deputies arrested a 69-year-old man who is accused of inappropriately touching a 2-year-old while he was babysitting. according to the east baton rouge sheriff's office, john foretich was babysitting the child at the time of the incident. family says foretich allegedly kissed the 2-year-old girl on the crotch and then forced the child to touch his genitals while he was changing her diaper. they say he admitted the crime to at least two members of the family. foretich was later arrested and charged with felony indecent behavior with a juvenile. foretich was also arrested for obscenity in march after he stood naked in the front doorway of his home while a woman was driving her children to school. she said foretich was completely nude and grabbing his genitalia as she drove by. stewart downing is on a collision course with middlesbrough as he tries to leave the club this month, even though they are willing to let him go out on loan. downing has been told by aitor karanka that he can go on loan until the end of the season, but only if he agrees to sign for a championship club. however, the former england international is convinced he is still good enough to play in the top flight and wants a move to palace. the 32-year-old played for palace manager sam allardyce when he was at west ham and a deal would be relatively simple to agree. boro, though, are understandably wary of allowing downing to join anyone who is also involved in a relegation battle and palace are directly below the teessiders in the table. former wwe star chris "the masterpiece" masters put his muscles to good use wednesday, when he was forced to uproot a tree with his bare hands to use it as a battering ram to enter his mother's burning house and save her. masters told tmz he rushed to his mother's home after his uncle called him to tell him a neighbor had barricaded himself inside his mother's house. when the wrestler got there the neighbor was shouting he would burn the house down if anyone tried to get in. after failing to talk the assailant down, masters called the cops. when they got there the neighbor set the house on fire. masters decided to take matters into his own hands: he tore a tree from the ground, broke in through a window and rescued his mother. police then arrested the man, who is still in custody. after his heroic act, masters bragged about it on twitter by posting a meme that basically sums up the entire incident. since our last lineageos post, the project has continued to add new features and support new devices. in addition to new quick settings tiles and changes to included apps, the rom now supports 16 additional devices. first, lineageos now has a handful of quick settings tiles, including ones for ambient display, opening the volume panel, usb tether, adb over network, and more. there's also a new gallery app with easy navigation and fullscreen video playback, as well as improvements to the recorder app. it has been a while since the last post, so there are plenty of new devices supported by lineageos. here are all of them: i'm glad to see lineage continuing to add support for more and more devices. let us know in the comments below if you're using the rom. the wisconsin badgers are currently looking for a head coach, and one name that's been floated as a possibility is darrell bevell, present offensive coordinator of the seattle seahawks. adam hoge of cbs reports, via twitter, that bevell, along with chris peterson, mel tucker and al golden are all "legit candidates," for the badgers job. bevell is getting some notice due to the seahawks' strong play this season. rookie quarterback russell wilson has done some big things for the seahawks, and bevell is the one drawing up and calling the plays that are making him successful. the offense hasn't been high octane or among the nfl's elite, but he unquestionably has the seahawks on the right path. sb nation's bucky's 5th quarter has been looking at the rumored candidates for the job, and they put bevell's chances of actually being the next head coach as pretty slim, but noted that it might be a strong move for the casual fan. that said, the writer in question doesn't seem set on the idea. the federal government will allow workers from the united states, such as electricians and plumbers, to get their licence to work in australia on arrival. federal skills minister chris evans said the measure would link australian employers with skilled workers in the us to fill skill shortages, especially in the civil engineering areas. "this is a great opportunity to address skill shortages in australia by filling shortfalls in particular areas with qualified candidates from the us, with applications expected to open from mid-april," he said in a statement on monday. under existing arrangements such workers need to be assessed onshore which can mean waiting months between entry and starting work. under the new skills assessment process, us workers will be assessed against australian regulatory requirements before entering the country. senator evans told reporters the assessment process was available to other nations and it was only logical that it be extended to the us. immigration minister chris bowen said the government planned to run its overseas skills australia needs expo in the us for the first time to attract skilled workers in the resources, energy and infrastructure sectors. the nfl announced friday that the fans selected houston texans linebacker brian cushing for the gmc never say never moment of the week. never say never moment nominees geno smith, new york jets rookie qb helps jets win in stunner: behind geno smith -- a rookie quarterback making his first nfl start -- the new york jets pulled off an 18-17 victory in the game's final moments. the tampa bay buccaneers kicked a field goal with 38 seconds remaining for what appeared would be the winning score. instead, smith led the jets into position for nick folk's 48-yard game-winning field goal with two seconds left. the attempt was set up by a long scramble by smith, and a personal-foul penalty against the buccaneers that assured the improbable ending. tom brady, new england patriots brady sets up decisive score: the new england patriots got all they could handle from the upset-minded buffalo bills. trailing 21-17 entering the fourth quarter, quarterback tom brady shook off a sloppy start to the 2013 season to deliver two scoring drives. the second of those drives -- a 49-yard march in 12 plays -- set up stephen gostkowski's 35-yard game-winning field goal with 35 seconds remaining. brady completed all six of his pass attempts on the final drive, and twice completed passes to convert on third down to deliver a 23-21 win. may refuses to commit to keeping britain in eu single market corbyn attacks 'shambolic tory brexit' labour demands government answers 170 brexit questions theresa may has refused to commit to giving mps a vote on her brexit strategy before triggering the process of leaving the european union - despite allowing tories to back a labour call for "proper scrutiny" of the plan. brexit tensions boiled over in parliament today as "hard brexit" tories accused their "soft brexit" colleagues of "weasel words". the comments by sir bill cash, made during a fiery commons debate, came as others supported labour's calls for the government to spell out its brexit plan and for it to be debated in parliament. the pound rallied on wednesday after mrs may moved to see off a tory rebellion by allowing her mps to back a labour motion which calls for "full and transparent debate" on the brexit plan and "proper scrutiny" of it before exit proceedings begin. but crucially, the motion does not call for a vote on the strategy before article 50 of the eu treaties is triggered by the end of march, and is not binding on ministers as it is being brought forward in an opposition day debate. the prime minister was therefore able to insist her position has not changed, while allowing disgruntled tories who want a vote to back the labour motion without rebelling, by voting for a government amendment which simply adds caveats. saudi arabia and israel are holding talks to establish diplomatic ties, the times reported on saturday. according to american and arab sources, the countries will begin with small measures like allowing israeli aircraft to fly over saudi airspace and permitting israeli businesses to operate in the gulf state, the uk-based times reported. a public alliance between the two countries would be the first of its kind though israel did have a trade office in doha before it was closed in 2009, during the gaza war. saudi sources denied that the gulf state is improving its ties with israel, the report stated. the talks come amid an ongoing diplomatic crisis between qatar and the arab gulf states over accusations of terrorist funding. while israel and saudi arabia have no diplomatic ties, they are seen as sharing regional security interests particularly over iran. israel has long viewed the islamic republic as one of its main threats in the region, while sunni saudi arabia considers the shi'ite nation as a contender for dominance in the middle east. last month, arab gulf states offered to normalize relations with israel in exchange for a partial freeze on jewish settlement construction in the west bank, the wall street journal reported. according to the report, officials from arab gulf states told top american officials that they would allow overflight rights to israel, establish direct telecommunications and lift restrictions on trade between the countries, in return for a promise from israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu that he would return to the negotiating table with palestinian president mahmoud abbas. preconditions for returning to peace talks could include freezing jewish settlement construction and opening up trade access to the gaza strip, according to the wall street journal. a rabbi and two jewish worshipers were stabbed in an attack outside a synagogue in marseilles, france on saturday morning. according to french daily le figaro, the knife-wielding assailant was drunk and could be heard shouting anti-semitic slurs at the time of the assault. according to the report, the assailant is mentally unstable and is known to local police. he was arrested near the scene shortly after the attack. get the times of israel's daily edition by email and never miss our top stories free sign up one of the victims sustained serious injuries from multiple stab wounds to the abdomen. a police source told the paper his injuries were not life threatening. there have been a series of attacks on jews in france in recent years, including the shooting at a kosher supermarket in paris in january, in which four people were killed. in march 2012, a teacher and three children were shot dead in an attack on a jewish school in toulouse. mfw i slaughter the tenno and butcher their corpses and they still do what i say for a shiny gun. mfw i create a deadly unstoppable plague and try to become ruler of the system, and the tenno give me the cure. mfw i upset the ancient enemy from beyond the terminus and the tenno expose themselves to cover my ass. mfw the board comes after me because i burned all their credits on my sick robo dog. mfw my old colleague tries to remain neutral to the tenno and they kill his crew and seduce his son. mfw the lotus is such a pushover that she lets me get away with whatever because i happen to know where the magic mcguffin is. mfw i've died and come back multiple times. mfw it's always me behind everything. as police in the grosse pointes continue to investigate their suspect, gerald day, in connection with a sexual assault and home invasions, the 27-year-old appeared in court for a home invasion case out of detroit where day allegedly held a woman against her will for six hours in december. a bench warrant had been issued for day last month after he failed to appear in a wayne county courtroom for arraignment shortly after he'd been ordered to stand trial on a series of charges including home invasion, unlawful imprisonment and assault of a detroit woman. day was arrested sunday morning after a lengthy search by police in the grosse pointes after he allegedly tried to gain entry into two occupied homes. a gun was found nearby and is currently being analyzed to see if day ditched that gun while police were looking for their suspect in sunday's attempted home invasions. after his arrest, a search of day's home in detroit resulted in the recovery of a gun from his bedroom, according to a police source. according to online court records, prosecutors are seeking charges for day being a felon in possession. day spent two years in prison for armed robbery. a would-be petrol bomber who was caught by police after he ran into a lamppost and needed medical treatment has been jailed for eight years. amir ali, of ridge road, crouch end, north london, tried to set fire to the imperial pub in crawley, west sussex. he broke a window while another man threw a petrol bomb which hit ali and burst into flames in may 2008, hove crown court heard. the 28-year-old panicked and hit his head on a lamppost as he fled. ali, who was linked to the attack by police when he sought treatment for his head injury, was found guilty in august of criminal damage. sussex police said he had consistently denied being involved in the attack despite it being caught on cctv. police are still trying to seek the identity of the second man involved. the pittsburgh steelers have their new offensive coordinator: todd haley. the former kansas city chiefs coach is set to be announced as the steelers new offensive coordinator sometime soon, according to 610 sports in kansas city. haley, of course, was fired as the chiefs head coach during the regular season. he held the position for three seasons and prior to that he was the arizona cardinals offensive coordinator. haley may still be known for some of the passing attacks he had in arizona but he was able to establish the league's no. 1 rushing attack with the chiefs in a 2010 season that ended in a division title. the steelers parted ways with former offensive coordinator bruce arians after the season. there were some rumblings that haley's interview with the steelers was a courtesy interview, as a nod to haley's dad, dick, who spent more than two decades in the steelers scouting department. now we know it was no courtesy interview. for more on the hire, check out sb nation's steelers blog, behind the steel curtain. with our cover story on gears of war 4, we covered a lot of topics to describe the coalition's work on the next installment for the series. with today's feature, we want to focus on what it's actually going to be like for players when they get their hands on an xbox one controller. while visiting the studio, we spoke with lead campaign designer matt searcy and studio head rod fergusson about the team's plans to maintain the classic gears of war-feel while adding several new tweaks and features. to learn what game informer editors thought of the new gears of war 4 gameplay, check out our discussion on the game informer show. watch the video below to learn more about how the team is changing cover mechanics, adding extreme weather, and embracing co-op in a new way. to learn more about gears of war 4, click on the banner below to enter our hub of exclusive content. arizona sheriff paul babeu is advising citizens thinking of going hiking in pinal county to "be armed, and do not be a victim" of drug cartel hitmen. according to the sheriff's office, mexican cartels are sending assassins, or "sicarios," across the border to kill rival-cartel "rip crews" who ambush their drug runners and make off with money and supply. the office said there have been multiple gun battles in areas south of the county between cartel assassins. deputies have also seen a rise in armed encounters with cartel drug runners. babeu encourages those using back roads, campsites and trails in known smuggling corridors of western pinal county to be very cautious and consider carrying a firearm when in these wilderness areas. a ninth mp has been struck down by the citizenship fiasco that has engulfed the federal parliament, with nxt senator skye kakoschke-moore announcing she will resign after discovering that she is a british citizen by descent. after an exhaustive search to determine her citizenship status, ms kakoschke-moore has confirmed her mother was born british in singapore at the time it was a colony and that the senator was, herself, a citizen of britain. mps are not permitted to be citizens of a foreign nation under section 44 of the constitution. ms kakoschke-moore, who was born in darwin and has not previously been connected to the citizenship crisis, said she had believed for her entire life she was not eligible because usually when a parent is born outside britain they are unable to pass their citizenship on to their children also born outside britain. her father had even made inquiries as to whether she could get a british passport when the family lived in oman when she was 12 but he was told she was not eligible. there was a bad case of the runs near toowoomba on wednesday morning when a truck carrying 27 tonnes of human waste lost its load after the driver was allegedly forced to brake to avoid a collision. the arkwood organic recycling truck was on crowley vale road off the warrego highway at crowley vale, 45 kilometres east of toowoomba, when the driver is believed to have swerved and applied the brakes to avoid a merging car. a truck carrying 27 tonnes of human waste spilled its load on wednesday morning near toowoomba. credit:emily gayton - 7 news toowoomba two tonnes of the waste pulled through the load's tarpaulin cover and ended up on the road just after 8am. arkwood organic recycling co-director elissa clarke said "it's like carting a fish bowl" and the sudden braking had forced the waste to spill through the cover. coby fleener's absence from indianapolis colts practice was short-lived. the promising tight end practiced with teammates in full pads tuesday, one day after he was held out as part of the nfl's concussion protocol. colts coach chuck pagano didn't clarify how or when fleener sustained the concussion. fleener did take a hard hit, which caused a fumble at the end of a 23-yard catch-and-run, in sunday's 44-20 preseason loss to the buffalo bills. fleener's speedy return tells us the injury wasn't serious. that said, fleener suffered a concussion as a rookie and was treated for concussion-like symptoms during his final season at stanford. with the memory of austin collie still fresh in indy, fleener's health is something to watch. the around the league podcast is now available on itunes! click here to listen and subscribe. private school teachers are being stalked to their homes during the weekend and harassed via email and sms by helicopter parents anxious about their children's homework. a queensland university of technology study of nearly 900 parents whose children attend an independent or catholic school found those who tended to overparent had greater expectations that teachers would be responsible for their child completing homework. these expectations of teachers rose as the child moved through school. school's out, but some parents still expect teachers to be on duty when there's homework to be done. credit:leah anne thompson "teachers were seen as falling short in their actual responsibility in the higher grades," researcher judith locke said. ms locke said overly involved parents could be too invested in their child's academic achievements, "which may result in excessive emotional reactions if the academic expectations are not fulfilled", and a tendency to blame the school for their child's failings. it was almost exactly one year ago that nicholas negroponte announced an agreement between olpc and microsoft to bring windows xp to the xo-1 to great turmoil. i vividly remember the late-night flood of e-mails and irc chats where everyone was trying to figure out just what that announcement really meant. beat by free as in beer! interestingly, since then, we've heard only a few stories of windows xo actually being used in deployments. at one point microsoft proudly announced that colombia had a windows xo pilot and other countries with ongoing trials were mentioned at different points in time. i've been wondering about what ever happened to these windows xp-based olpc trials. i haven't really heard anything about them in quite some time. now more recently i've asked around and found there is a good reason why i haven't seen anything: countries are choosing sugar over windows xp for their xo deployments. apparently the conversations are going pretty much as many of us had expected: initially country representatives inquire if windows xp runs on the xo laptop. that doesn't really come as a surprise - for many people windows is the definition of a computer. however, upon further investigation every country decided to stick to sugar. which extra xp cost and hassle do you think kills the windows xo idea? also, and i'm not quite sure whether this might be related, but i've heard that microsoft unlimited potential is undergoing a reorganization as part of the microsoft layoffs. stay on top of xp on the xo news: subscribe to olpc news via rss feed, emails or twitter. prev next image 2 of 3 prev image 3 of 3 witnesses and an official say the roof of a church has collapsed onto worshippers in southern nigeria, killing at least 60 people. congregants say the reigners bible church in uyo city was still under construction when it was used for a ceremony to ordain a bishop saturday. they say hundreds of people were inside when metal girders crashed and the corrugated iron roof caved in. a rescue official says at least 60 people died but the toll could mount as a crane removes debris. he spoke on condition of anonymity because he is not authorized to speak to reporters. the state government says it will investigate if anyone compromised building standards. in 2014, 116 people died when a multi-story building of the synagogue church of all nations collapsed in lagos. thiruvananthapuram: kerala police on thursday detained two migrant labourers in connection with the death of 30-year-old dalit woman, who was allegedly raped and brutally murdered in perumbavoor. the kerala government has formed a 20-member team to probe the case. the deputy superintendent of police of perumbavoor area has also been replaced to handle law and order situation. the police on wednesday had released a sketch of a suspect. the post-mortem conducted at alapuzha medical college hospital confirmed that the victim was subjected to brutal torture and rape. her body bore 38 wounds, big and small. with the incident snowballing into an embarrassment for the state which is in the midst of campaign for may 16 assembly elections, chief minister oommen chandy met the victim's family. he assured that government would spare no efforts in bringing the culprits to book. the government on wednesday announced a solatium of rs 10 lakh to the family of the woman. a government job will also be provided to the sister of the woman, an official press release said. the law student was subjected to rape and brutal assault using sharp edged weapons before being murdered. she was found dead in a pool of blood at her one room home at 8 pm on the same day by her mother when she returned from work. brighton hope to have the edge in the pursuit of chelsea's tammy abraham by virtue of chris hughton's strong relationship with michael emenalo. the chelsea technical director is selective over where players are sent on loan and views brighton under hughton as a good place for the club's youngsters to gain experience. abraham is a loan target for a number of clubs with newcastle also strongly in the running. rafa benitez has made a personal bid in trying to secure the season-long move. brighton hope to have the edge in the pursuit of chelsea's tammy abraham on loan chelsea will let abraham out to a premier league club to aid his development after the 19-year-old scored 26 goals in 48 games while at bristol city. both brighton and newcastle have been granted permission to speak to the striker by chelsea but the premier league champions rate him highly and will not countenance a sale. as well as hughton's high standing among the power-brokers at stamford bridge, brighton's relatively close proximity to chelsea's cobham training base is also in their favour. when you are connecting the solar cells together, the most important thing you need to do is make sure to apply flux before soldering them together. not only do you need to apply flux, but make sure you apply enough of it. flux is what allows the solder to stick to your solar cells. if there's no flux or not enough of it, the tin wires that you solder onto the solar cells will not make good contact and in most cases, will not stick properly. the easiest way to make sure you don't encounter this problem is to use a flux pen. this will allow you to easily apply an adequate amount of flux every time you use it. david attenborough narrates the lives of four growing tiger cubs using footage collected by hidden-camera-carrying elephants. over two years, the elephants help capture the most intimate portrayal of tigers ever filmed. as they grow, the cubs move from their mother's milk onto meat. fortunately, the tigress is a skilled hunter. charger, their imposing father, keeps his distance but helps to protect his vulnerable offspring from rogue male tigers and leopards. the half-grown cubs are learning the hunting and fighting skills they will need as adults. the cameras also give an insight into the worlds of other animals, with leopards presenting a real threat to the growing cubs and deer making good hunting practice. the tigers head to a water hole to cool off on a steaming hot day and the spy-cams show that the jungle pools are a magnet for a whole array of forest animals, including wild boars and sloth bears. but disaster strikes when both the cubs' parents are injured and a rogue male puts in an appearance. their biggest challenge is learning to hunt for themselves, but their mother soon loses patience. many new animal stars make their appearance, including an irresistible jackal family that has to cope when the tiger family invades their backyard, and a flock of peacocks that tease the tigers by playing a game of dare. we're still working hard to hammer the beta in to shape and fix all the bugs and issues that have been reported. we'd like to thank everyone for your help in testing construct 3 so far - we think we've made a great deal of progress already! please do keep testing away and let us know of any more problems that come up. there are still some known issues we're aware of, which we hope to address as soon as we can. we've had around 150 bug reports already since tuesday and we're making lots of progress, but it will take a little longer to get through all of them! stay tuned for more updates next week. please remember that you must close and reopen the browser tab to update c3 to a new version when you see the notification. we're still looking in to that! like many of us in toronto right now, you're probably already counting down the days until summer when you can spend long, lazy afternoons outside sipping on beer or cider. and once the warm weather returns, it'll be even easier to make that happen. that's because the government of ontario will authorize an additional 80 grocery stores across the province to sell beer and cider. already, 130 supermarkets sell beer and cider - 70 of these sell wine. with this expansion, 210 stores will able to sell beer and cider. it's unclear which additional stores will get to sell beer and cider because they still have to go through a formal bidding process. there are already plenty of stores in the gta with beer, wine and cider on their shelves. and you can always stock up at the lcbo, the beer store and the various craft breweries and bottle shops dotted around the city. the big block 404 rba is a vapor machine packed with unique features and innovative design and this high quality clone is certain to have you trying new builds! designed with vertical coils in mind, the big block 404 rba is unique in that the entire outer rim serves as a negative post, with a ring held down by four screws serving to keep your coils in place. with the adjustable airflow system, this will accommodate any number of coils you can build, including quad-coil setups! the big block 404 also features an incredibly deep juice well and heat dissipating fins on the cap making chain vaping no problem - you won't be running dry or burning your lips any time soon with the big block. this is an rba meant for serious drippers and is sure to deliver all of the performance and flavor you could want. includes custom dip tip to with side air holes to prevent juice from flowing back and creating an air vortex inside the atomizer for improved flavor! don't forget to pick up some kanthal and silica so you can get building as soon as your big block 404 arrives! remember way back in november when your most insufferable facebook friends were insisting there was zero difference between trump and clinton? besides, they cynically insisted, trump would never do all of that crazy stuff he kept promising! who cares whom you vote for? if there's any justice in the world, those same friends have watched in abject horror as trump has thrown democratic norms out the window, threatened allies and enemies alike on twitter, and generally sowed world chaos in his first two weeks as president. now evidence suggests that people like them played a big role in putting trump in the white house. a new report from the florida division of elections finds that more than 161,000 florida voters went to the polls november 8, filled out a ballot, and then either avoided the presidential ticket or wrote in an invalid choice. the idea of receiving traffic updates on your sat nav may suddenly seem tawdry next to this more futuristic alternative dreamed up by renault: if you're driving along in its "kwid" concept car and you're worried about jams up ahead, you simply launch a quadrocopter drone from the car's roof, send it skyward using a control app on your tablet and then survey the road through its camera. would it be distracting, trying to perceive two views at once without the multitasking skills of an apache pilot? whose insurer would pay out if your drone pranged someone else's? fortunately, these questions need not concern us, as renault readily admits that the kwid will probably never see the light of an assembly plant. and in any case, if the technology does come about one day, the parallel advent of semi-autonomous cars and mind-controlled drones would surely make it practical. counseling staff members are assigned to a specific job in one camp unit. every counselor is first of all a cabin counselor involved in the person-to-person relationships of guiding campers. all counseling staff live with and are responsible for a group of campers. they write weekly reports to parents, supervise meals, maintain discipline, and set a good example. counselors also help campers with laundry, making beds, homesickness, and personal hygiene. counselors need to have the ability to observe camper behavior, assess its appropriateness, communicate effectively with campers and peers, and provide necessary instruction to campers. all counselors must have the visual and auditory ability to identify and respond to environmental and other hazards related to the activity, the cognitive ability to plan and conduct the activity safely, and the physical ability and strength necessary to lead the activity five days a week. counselors must be prepared for long hours, minimal personal time and many rewards. counselors must enjoy young people and have a sense of fair and effective discipline. the ministry's staff get through 80,000 rolls of toilet paper a year. the staff member charged with ordering supplies of loo paper has been off ill for a while. no supplies have been ordered for three months and the ministry now needs to find a solution in a bit of a hurry. "we've only got a week left in which to make our final order with our present supplier. if we can get a grip on the figures and get an estimate for the amount of loo paper we need, we will be able to sort something out so we don't end up in difficulty" a spokesman for the ministry told the press agency belga. the ministry has clarified that in exceptional circumstances departments can get permission to buy loo paper themselves and get the costs reimbursed. a father is taking his child's school and the attorney-general to the high court in a landmark case over school bible lessons. things turned sour between the school in red beach, a suburb on the hibiscus coast, and jeff mcclintock after his daughter, violet, now nine, was placed in bible classes without parental permission. one of the bible class teachers from life in focus trust, a volunteer who was not a qualified teacher, said parents did not need to be notified because the classes were "history lessons" as the bible was factually correct. the school operated an "opt out" system, but mcclintock said despite opting out, violet was repeatedly put back in. after numerous complaints, mcclintock was bringing his case against red beach school board of trustees for breaching its duties under the education act 1989 and against the attorney-general for passing legislation that was inconsistent with the new zealand bill of rights. board of trustees chairman antony wentworth said the legal action was a "frustration" and a "distraction from core business". the first hearing was set down for march 26 at the high court at auckland. the comments on this story have now been closed. a man is fighting for his life today, after he was seriously injured in a shooting in the tenderloin thursday night. according to the san francisco police department, a 24-year old man was at the corner of eddy and leavenworth streets at 10:04 last night, when he was approached by a group of nine men described by witnesses as in their early 20s. a "verbal argument ensued" between the gang and the solitary man, police say. that discussion turned violent when one of the fellows in the group "pulled a handgun and shot" the man in the chest. the nine men fled west on eddy towards hyde street, police say, leaving their victim on the ground suffering from life-threatening injuries. he was transported to san francisco general hospital, where police say he remains friday morning. the suspects in the shooting remain on the loose, according to sfpd. as always, if you know anything about this crime, you're urged to call sfpd's anonymous tip line at 415-575-4444 or to text a tip to tip411 with sfpd at the beginning of the message. dithmenos the shadowed desires all to be darkness. followers of dithmenos gain a strange and otherworldly affinity to the shadows of their environment. this god despises the physical world and constantly seeks to encroach on it. dithmenos therefore rewards those who wield death and destruction while gradually consuming them with darkness. followers of dithmenos are constantly surrounded in an aura of shadow, the extent of which is reflective of their level of devotion. dithmenos grants followers the ability to instantly step into the shadow of nearby creatures, provided the shadow is still enough to do so. dithmenos protects followers by occasionally shrouding those struck by attacks in dark smoke. sufficiently pious followers of dithmenos will find their own shadow will begin to attack on its own, and eventually gain the ability to assume the form of a shadow themself. dithmenos likes it when you kill living beings, you destroy the undead, you kill demons, you kill holy beings, and you destroy nonliving beings. the sudeten german landsmannschaft, an organization representing the interests of sudeten germans expelled from czechoslovakia after world war ii, on the grounds of the so-called benes decrees, will no longer strive for the return of property to the expellees and their descendants, according to a statement the organization released to the press on sunday. at a weekend conference the sl amended its statutes, dropping the passage stating it would fight for the return of confiscated sudeten german property and replacing it with a commitment to strive for a european arrangement where basic human rights, including the right to a homeland and self-determination would be fully respected. the organization says it will strive for the charter of fundamental rights to be valid across the eu. former czech president vaclav klaus demanded an exemption from the charter for his country on the grounds that it could open the door to a wave of sudeten german property claims, but the present centre-left government said last year it no longer wanted the opt-out. the possibility of sudeten german restitutions have been a major issue of contention between the two countries. ahead of elections in the palestinian authority, fatah appears split in two as its central committee mulled presenting the public with two different sets of rosters sunday. less than a year after calling for younger blood in the movement, today's fatah seems more concerned with keeping the party from shattering into various movements. on saturday its central committee attempted to contain the anarchy that many believe will erupt in nablus. following the dismantlement of nablus's city council, which was previously presided over by hamas, fatah plans to present the leader of its revolutionary council, amin makboul, as a candidate. but his adversary is also a member of fatah, ghassan shakaa, who served as nablus mayor two terms ago, before hamas took control. the members making this claim say that aside from the election of president mahmoud abbas to the movement's chair, all other decisions made by the council are tainted with serious corruption that could end up leaving the movement vulnerable to hostile influences. whether you need an extra helping of fiber or want a supplement for effortless weight management, miracle noodle konjac flour is the ideal choice. this flour is derived from the japanese konjac plant, which has been used for centuries. in fact, it's the same flour used to make our best-selling shirataki noodles! adding konjac powder to your diet helps you get an extra dose of glucomannan, which can help with weight loss, digestion, cholesterol levels and energy. glucomannan powder is easy to integrate into your existing routine. simply use it as a thickener in place of cornstarch - 1 teaspoon of konjac flour equals about 10 teaspoons of cornstarch - to create delicious glucomannan recipes from scratch. our customers love to use it as a thickener in sauces and soups. it can also be used in baking - 1 teaspoon of konjac flour equals about 2 cups of wheat flour - or you can simply dissolve it water as a fiber supplement! by: kelsey from care2 recipient: nars cosmetics nars cosmetics is a popular cosmetics brand that has been committed to creating products without animal testing. unfortunately, in order to sell products in china, brands must test on animals. instead of forgoing opening to the chinese market, nars has decided to test products on animals so they can sell in china. sign the petition to ask nars to keep their commitment to be cruelty free and choose not to sell in china. fans of nars have been speaking up online, especially instagram, about their disappointment in the brand's choice. many folks use nars specifically because they have refused to test on animals and those folks are feeling betrayed now. nars has been a champion of a world with no animal testing for a long time, and this move to change their core values just for their bottom line is unimpressive at best. i personally use some nars products for this purpose and am really upset that i no longer feel i can support them. there are many safe ways to test cosmetics without using animals and the only way to get countries like china to see that is for companies like nars to refuse to go along with their laws. a dead falcon fitted with a small camera has sparked alarm along india's highly militarised border with pakistan. indian security forces found the carcass near the ancient fort city of jaisalmer in the far west of the desert state of rajasthan where the indian armed forces regularly conduct drills and war games. "it was fitted with some device and an antenna," a senior border security force officer stationed in the state told afp by telephone on condition of anonymity. suspicions were initially that the bird might have been used for military spying, but the camera did not appear very sophisticated and it might instead have been the work of pakistani hunters, the official said. "however, the possibility of it being an espionage attempt from pakistan cannot be ruled out at this stage," he said, adding that an investigation was being carried out. in 2010, indian police detained a pigeon under armed guard after it was caught on an alleged spying mission. local officers in punjab state, which lies to the north of rajasthan, said the white bird had a ring around its foot and a pakistani phone number and address stamped on its body in red ink. vladimir putin is poised to introduce draconian measures to unplug russia from the internet in emergencies caused by the 'unpredictable' west, it was claimed yesterday. the web is seen as the last bastion of glasnost - or openness - in moscow, but now there are fears new curbs will be imposed as they have been on tv and newspapers. the russian president is summoning a monday session of his powerful security council over the issue. 'taking into account the complete unpredictability of the united states and european union, russia is taking measures to ensure its own security,' putin's spokesman dmitry peskov told afp. it was vital to act due to 'the unpredictability of our foreign partners', he insisted. he claimed russia should be 'ready for anything' after the worst rift with the west since the cold war. vedomosti newspaper said russia was aiming to strengthen the 'sovereignty of the russian segment of the world wide web'. this could include powers to unplug russia from the world wide web in 'emergency' situations. these might be protest rallies or military hostilities, the newspaper said citing sources. the web has been a focus of kremlin criticism over the ukraine conflict, and the aim would be to prevent it operating internationally in any crisis. the country's citizens would only be able to use a russian-wide web. this week a major social networking site vkontakte fell completely under the control of a company in the empire of kremlin-friendly alisher usmanov, also a major shareholder of arsenal football club. 'we have a highly reliable backup plan, which maybe discussed at the security council meeting,' said a source. the move follows calls from politicians to isolate the russian web from the us and eu internet which are seen as subversive. the nfl and football as a sport have long been male-dominated at every level of competition, coaching and officiating. in the just the last few months, however, the league hired its first full-time female referee and the arizona cardinals hired the first female coach. in terms of pure ratios, this is by no means a huge diversification of gender in the nfl, but based on the league's history, it's an unprecedented set of hires that pave the way for future women who love football and want to work in the game's biggest league. over the weekend, sarah thomas and jen welter met briefly before a preseason game between the cardinals and the kansas city chiefs. they shook hands and exchanged a few private words, marking a historic intersection between two women unassumingly becoming pioneers of their respective professions. arsenal tried to take ramadan sobhi on trial earlier this year. stoke city have made a bid for highly rated teenager ramadan sobhi, sources from egypt have told espn fc. sobhi, who currently plies his trade for al ahly, is regarded as one of the best young talents to emerge from egypt and his form has alerted a number of clubs in europe. arsenal and italian side roma have been long-term admirers of sobhi with arsenal failing in a bid to take the 18-year-old on trial earlier this year. sobhi broke into the egyptian national team at the age of 17 and to date has scored one goal in six appearances for his country. stoke scouts have watched sobhi in action in recent weeks and they have firmed up their interest by tabling an offer for the attacking midfielder as they look to beat their rivals to his signature. stoke boss mark hughes has been busy bringing in some exciting talents such as xherdan shaqiri and bojan krkic to the britannia stadium in recent years and he sees sobhi as someone who can prove a valuable addition to his plans. al ahly are reluctant to lose sobhi, but know they face a battle to stop the exciting teenager making the move to europe this summer. roku originally told us its new netflix channel would roll out in june, but it looks like things are actually happening a little early -- the updated interface will go live starting tomorrow, and it'll be rolling out to everyone over the next week. as promised, the new interface lets you search the entire netflix watch instantly library directly from your tv, and you'll be able to browse through netflix categories like new releases, action, and comedy as well, which definitely makes the casual turn-on-and-watch experience far easier and nicer. we do wish there was a filter for hd content, though, and we noticed some lag as titles and artwork loaded in when we clicked around a little too fast, but there weren't any major hassles apart from the general annoyance of trying to type on an on-screen keyboard with a remote control. a little bluetooth integration in the next revision would be nice -- or hey, why not a smartphone app? overall, though, the new channel is a nice solid update for roku owners, and we certainly can't argue with free. - joseph spencer says he just happened to be in the right place at the right time when he was flagged down by neighbors about a house fire. now he's credited with saving a disabled veteran's life. "i broke the window out there and yelled inside and saw a little bit of fire, bit of smoldering stuff, it was really smoky in there, i yelled out again, and i heard someone yelling i'm dying, i'm dying," said spencer. spencer was getting off work from his job at directv when he was flagged down. he and the neighbor ran around the home to get closer to someone crying out that they were dying. that's when he made the decision to go in. "i got on my hands and knees, and i crawled and located him inside there, grabbed him and said we have to go, he said i have no legs. i didn't say anything i just grabbed him and crawled over to the window, put him up into the window, the neighbor got him out, and i collapsed on the floor," said spencer. the victim is a double amputee army veteran who most likely wouldn't have made it out alive if it wasn't for the neighbor and spencer. "i took a second when i broke the window out to assess the situation and to understand what exactly i needed to do to get this guy out, i remembered to stay low and crawl on the floor," he said. humble as ever joseph says he's just happy he could help and thankfully the story has a happy ending. "there wasn't any time to be scared, or to second guess what i was going to do, i just came up with a plan and executed the plan," said spencer. mesa fire confirms that the victim is recovering tonight, but says that is all the information they can give because the fire is still under investigation. hillsborough match commander david duckenfield, former chief constable sir norman bettison and four other people are to be prosecuted over offences relating to the hillsborough disaster. the crown prosecution service announced that duckenfield is to be charged with the manslaughter by gross negligence of 95 of the 96 liverpool fc fans who died at the fa cup semi-final in 1989 and bettison has been charged with four counts of misconduct in public office. sue hemming, head of the cps's special crime division, said former south yorkshire police officers donald denton and alan foster, as well as force solicitor peter metcalf, are charged with doing acts with intent to pervert the course of justice. former sheffield wednesday secretary graham mackrell is also charged with three offences relating to health and safety at sports grounds. it's all too easy to get caught up in the routine. we count down the hours instead of enjoy our time and we long for something more, but in the end we are left with the mundane, boring, everyday activities that make up our lives. once in a while, something special happens. a fleeting glance, an accidental touch, a returned smile: these moments show us a glimpse of something different, something more. we think about them and what they could mean for us, the path not taken and the life not lived. but what if you could make those moments happen yourself? feel the butterflies, experience the desire, and know what it is not to just live but to really come alive? ashley madison is the place to start your journey, to find your moment. today is an important day in the internet's history. minutes from now, the fcc will convene to consider chairman tom wheeler's controversial new "open internet" regulations that could ultimately allow isps to create "fast lanes" of internet service for companies willing to pay extra. wheeler's plan has been met with a swift and harsh backlash from the public, groups advocating for net neutrality, and even his fellow fcc commissioners. this has all apparently led the fcc head to redraft his rules, if recent reports are accurate. will paid prioritization still be a major component of what wheeler has to share? or will he finally bow to the growing outcry and move towards classifying broadband as the utility it should be? tune in starting at 10:30am et to watch the fcc hash it out live in washington. if you'd rather avoid the fcc's closed captioning, c-span has another feed of today's meeting. it looks a bit better, too. it's hard to know what to make of eminem, even if you know that half of what he says is sincere and half is a put-on; the trick is realizing that there's truth in the joke, and vice versa. many dismissed his considerable skills as a rapper and social satirist because the vulgarity and gross-out humor on the slim shady lp were too detailed for some to believe that it was anything but real. to eminem's credit, he decided to exploit that confusion on his masterful second record, the marshall mathers lp. eminem is all about blurring the distinction between reality and fiction, humor and horror, satire and documentary, so it makes perfect sense that the marshall mathers lp is no more or no less "real" than the slim shady lp. it is, however, a fairly brilliant expansion of his debut, turning his spare, menacing hip-hop into a hyper-surreal, wittily disturbing thrill ride. it's both funnier and darker than his debut, and eminem's writing is so sharp and clever that the jokes cut as deeply as the explorations of his ruptured psyche. the production is nearly as evocative as the raps, with liquid basslines, stuttering rhythms, slight sound effects, and spacious soundscapes. there may not be overpowering hooks on every track, but the album works as a whole, always drawing the listener in. but, once you're in, eminem doesn't care if you understand exactly where he's at, and he doesn't offer any apologies if you can't sort the fact from the fiction. as an artist, he's supposed to create his own world, and with this terrific second effort, he certainly has. it may be a world that is as infuriating as it is intriguing, but it is without question his own, which is far more than most of his peers are able to accomplish at the dawn of a new millennium. uk native james morgan was studying photography in london when he read about a group of seafaring southeast asian nomads who had survived the 2004 indian ocean tsunami with almost no casualties. "they understood the ocean so well that they headed for protection before the tsunami hit," morgan told business insider. an anthropologist by training, morgan decided to document the bajau laut, who have begun to lose their culture in recent years because of government programs that force them ashore and the difficult reality of fishing for a living in overfished seas. morgan found a nomadic people struggling to sustain themselves by continuing to overfish the waters and, ultimately, hurting the very habitat they call home. in 2014, morgan shared a selection of his photos of the bajau laut with us. you can see the rest at his website. welcome to the balance community: slackline outfitters homepage! here at balance community, you will find nothing but professional slackline gear for the dedicated slackliner, which has all been designed and tested by slackliners. we are devoted to providing our customers with the highest quality gear possible in order to maximize their slackline experience while minimizing the effort needed to achieve it. check out our various categories for the latest in slackline gear while catching up on all of our slackline adventures in our pro-team pages. there is a lot of useful information about slacklining in our slack science blog. if you have any questions or comments about slacklining, our products, or the website, please feel free to contact us and we would be glad to help you out. good luck out there and remember to keep it slack! former douglas county sheriff's department deputy cory cooper pleaded no contest wednesday to a misdemeanor assault charge and to attempted tampering with evidence. cooper was arrested for the alleged sexual assault of a 19-year-old while he was on duty. according to an omaha police department report, the alleged assault happened february 10, 2013 at a park near south 168th and f streets. the victim says cooper forced her into performing oral sex on him to get a friend out of trouble. wowt 6 news fact finders reported in may that cooper was fired by the sheriff's department for inappropriate behavior with the opposite sex while on duty. prosecutors say cooper altered paperwork in an attempt to cover up where he had had been the night of february 10th. they also say the investigation uncovered gps information that puts cooper's cruiser in the park at the time of the incident. the 31-year-old cooper was a five-year veteran of the department. he worked for four years as a douglas county corrections officer before that. he has also served in the military in iraq and bosnia. cooper is scheduled to be sentenced on june 10th. he will not have to register as a sex offender. american facebook members spend an average of 40 minutes per day on the social network -- about as much time as americans devote to household chores and personal grooming. mark zuckerberg shared the statistic on facebook usage during an earnings call wednesday, and qualified it by saying he still sees ample room for growth. some might balk at the notion that americans pass about as much time peering at each other on the social network as we do on habits like showering -- we average 42 minutes of grooming per day during the week, according to the bureau of labor statistics. but the facebook ceo pointed out that americans spend a full nine hours each day engaging with all forms of digital media, and hinted he hopes to claim a larger share. a facebook-sponsored survey of american smartphone owners released last year found that facebook members checked the site an average of 14 times per day, and spent nearly 33 minutes on it. the study also found that facebook was only the third most popular online activity, behind email and browsing the web. derby county are considering making a move for former atletico madrid winger javier arizmendi, according to flw sources. the 30-year-old can be utilised as either a striker or a winger and is currently a free agent, after being released by deportivo la coruna in the summer. derby county boss steve mcclaren is actively searching for a replacement winger for jordan ibe, who returned to parent club liverpool after a loan spell at the ipro stadium. flw understands that arizmendi is among a number of potential wingers who are transfer targets for the championship high-flyers. the 6ft 2 winger has an abundance of experience playing professional football in spain, having played for atletico madrid, racing santander, deportivo, valencia, zaragoza, getafe, and mallorca. arguably, his most productive spell came at zaragoza where he went on to make 69 appearances, scoring 14 goals. the 30-year-old has been a relatively prominent figure in the spain national team youth setup, having made appearances for the spain under-20 side, all the way up to the senior national side. arizmendi is not the first spanish player that steve mcclaren is eyeing, he has also made a bid to sign defender jesus garcia tena, as reported on flw. the rams have already signed raul albentosa from spanish outfit eibar. at the age of 26, albentosa has a fair few years in his career ahead of him still in professional football, so the rams have signed a player who could remain at the club for a while. the issue lies in how arizmendi can adapt to life in the sky bet championship, as it is a truly unique division which demands high-tempo, intense football week in week out. two men have been charged after an 81-year-old man was assaulted. mushin ahmed was attacked on monday in the area around fitzwilliam road and mushroom roundabout in rotherham. mr ahmed is believed to have been on his way to early morning prayers at a mosque. he is in a critical but stable condition in hospital. damien hunt, 29, of doncaster road, and kieran rice, 21, of oakes meadow, both in rotherham, have been charged with section 18 assault with intent. mr rice has also been charged with possession of a controlled drug. they appeared at rotherham magistrates' court earlier where they were remanded in custody to appear at sheffield crown court on 28 august. documentary following the conflicts and dilemmas faced by three young people as they navigate their way through telling their family and friends that they are gay or transgender. coming out diaries follows the conflicts and dilemmas faced by three young people as they navigate their way through telling their family and friends that they are gay or transgender. 17-year-old natalie was born a boy, but now wants to dress and live fully as a girl. her mum arlene is reeling from the shock of the news and is finding it very difficult to accept that her 'son' is now her 'daughter'. arlene will not allow natalie to dress as a girl at home and still calls her kieran, natalie's birth name. natalie can only wear female clothes away from home so she gets changed in public toilets when she is out in town. the film follows natalie's battle for acceptance and her mum's attempt to understand. 17-year-old tori feels she was bullied at school for being a lesbian. she wants to come out to her new friends at beauty college so she can become closer to them, but she is terrified after her previous experiences. this is compounded by the fact that at beauty school all the treatments are intimate and she is worried that the other girls will not want her to practice beauty treatments on them in class. 19-year-old jamie has not told his uni course-mates that he was born a girl. he loves being accepted as one of the lads and is thrilled that for the first time no-one has guessed his secret. but on the flip side, jamie worries all the time that he is deceiving his course-mates and is thinking about coming out so he can stop feeling like he is living a lie. amazon may be lagging behind netflix when it comes to delivering original programming to users, but the company just scooped up a fairly recognizable brand in zombieland. a tv series set in the same zombie-filled universe as the feature film starring jesse eisenberg and woody harrelson was originally rumored to be heading to network television by way of cbs. but broadcast now is reporting that in fact amazon is handling development on the series. unfortunately it's doubtful we'll be seeing episodes pop up on instant video anytime soon; leaked casting sheets and script excerpts obtained by io9 last week suggest work on the project is just getting underway. but as netflix prepares for its own original content push this year with house of cards february 1st and later arrested development, it's clear amazon will be giving the streaming service competition before long. as queensland survey the state of origin wreckage, canberra raiders five-eighth blake austin is wary of a manly playmaker with a point to prove. austin felt the raiders handled manly halfback daly cherry-evans when they met in round eight, but he was expecting the queenslander to have a point to prove at brookvale on sunday. raiders five-eighth blake austin is wary of a daly cherry-evans with a point to prove. credit:getty images the raiders said their sole origin representative josh papalii has pulled up well and was expected to be available to face the sea eagles, while dave taylor has recovered from the chickenpox and is in line to play for mounties against the blacktown workers in the nsw cup on sunday. there's still uncertainty surrounding the fitness of maroons legend johnathan thurston ahead of origin ii at anz stadium in three weeks. the purpose of these instructions is for the average person, with average skills and equipment, to construct a simple 22-caliber revolver. i have read a lot of books on how to make homemade guns and what i have found is that there are two extremes. at one end of the spectrum, you have the crudely made single shots that are impractical and more dangerous to the person firing the gun than to their target. at the other end, you have complex guns, like semi and fully automatics that require you to purchase specialized parts and materials, such as barrels and springs from a supplier. you must also have or have access to expensive machine tools. it takes an experienced machinist or gunsmith to make these firearms. what i have come up with is a good happy medium. angry protests have taken place in kensington tonight as police confirmed at least 30 people died in the grenfell tower blaze. huge crowds gathered outside the town hall this evening and stormed the building chanting "murderers", demanding answers about the horrendous tragedy from earlier this week. and the prime minister faced chants of "coward" as she returned to the scene of the tragedy. more than 70 people are believed to be unaccounted for as hopes for many families continue to fade two days after the fire broke out. but there are fears the death toll could exceed 100 as the search for bodies continues. the queen and prince william visited a rest centre today to meet with survivors, local officials and volunteers. keep reading for a summary of today events. two of three men charged in a violent home invasion in upper sackville have pleaded not guilty to the charges. clinton james christie and jason matthew halsey appeared in nova scotia supreme court thursday morning. they face a slew of charges, including robbery, assault, kidnapping and escaping lawful custody. the charges relate to an incident on june 8 in which a 48-year-old man, a 44-year-old woman and a 13 year old were tied up in their home. no one was hurt and the victims managed to free themselves and call police. the two men will return to court next month to discuss the next steps in the case and it could be some time before they head to trial. both men have requested to appear by video to avoid having to be transported from the jails where they're being held. the third suspect in this case, derek thomas macphee, has had all the charges against him dropped. he struck an immunity deal with the crown and agreed to testify in the murder case against notorious nova scotia crime figure jimmy melvin jr. a chinese police chief has been ordered to resign and a deputy chief has been fired amid allegations that a man died in custody after being tortured. police initially said wang yanhui died suddenly while being questioned in henan province over alleged theft, state media reported. but when his family saw his body they said his injuries suggested abuse. the incident has fuelled public anger over a series of reports of torture and deaths in police detention. zhang guanjun, police chief in henan's lushan county, was ordered to stand down from his post over dereliction of duties, said xinhua. the news agency said an unnamed deputy chief policeman had also been removed from his post and four policemen involved in the alleged torture handed over to prosecutors. mr wang was reported to have died while being interrogated over alleged theft on 21 february, three days after he was arrested. the chongqing evening news reported that he had died suddenly after drinking hot water. other reports said he had been taken to hospital after becoming ill during questioning. but mr wang's family said when they collected his body it showed signs of multiple violent injuries. they told state media his nipples had been cut off, his genitals cut and his skull fractured. the provincial security bureau said all those found responsible would be severely punished, reported xinhua. last april, china launched a campaign to "eliminate unnatural deaths" among detainees and prison inmates. it followed several suspicious deaths in custody, including that of li qiaoming in a prison in southern yunnan province. prison officers initially claimed he had died while playing a game of hide-and-seek with other inmates, but an investigation found he had been beaten to death by fellow inmates. a saudi jet has been reportedly shot down in northwestern yemen as clashes near the saudi arabia-yemen destroyed frontier crossing. the f-16 fighter jet, flown on behalf of the saudi-led coalition pounding shi'ite houthi rebels in yemen, was brought down in bani harith district of the northern part of capital sana'a. according to iran's state-run press tv, two unexploded rockets were found inside the fighter aircraft, which was operating from yemen's al-dailami air base. sunni powerhouse saudi arabia and its allied forces have been carrying out airstrikes in yemen against houthi rebels, who are widely thought to be backed by shi'ite-inclined iran. in another development, saudi forces and houthi militia have been trading heavy artillery fire near the border crossing. saudi arabia shares a 1,800km-long porous border with yemen. the haradh border crossing was partially destroyed during latest skirmishes, reported reuters citing eye-witnesses. the crossing, which is the largest for passenger and goods transit, was already evacuated before the shelling. residents in nearby towns also fled the area prior to the fighting. the continuing turmoil has been raising serious concerns that regional powers - shi'ite-inclined iran, and the world's top oil exporter saudi arabia along with other sunni muslim states in the region - are throwing their weight behind the houthi and the effectively-exiled yemeni president abd-rabbu mansour hadi respectively. the united states has said it is "deeply disturbed" by reports of the death of activist cao shunli at a hospital in beijing. cao's lawyers said she had died in detention after being denied medical treatment for several months. the human rights activist was arrested at beijing airport in september, when she attempted to board a flight to geneva to attend a un training course. she had previously served at least two terms in prison camps for her activism. human rights watch said that cao was only transferred to hospital in february, despite her medical condition worsening in her months in detention. cao had advocated for the right of independent civilians to participate in the chinese government's drafting of human rights reports. us state department spokeswoman jen psaki said that the us had repeatedly raised concerns about cao shunli's detention and deteriorating health with the chinese authorities. on her home plane of kaladesh, saheeli is a famous inventor renowned as the most brilliant metalsmith of her time. she's best known for the bewitchingly lifelike artifact constructs she crafts out of gleaming iridescent metal. from the smallest insect to the largest elephant, saheeli has an uncanny ability to replicate any creature she sees, capturing the essence of its life in her metal creation. admirers, collectors, and investors flock to see her designs, spending hours gazing, enraptured by her artistry. her innate, effortless talent has made her the envy of many fellow inventors, especially lifecrafters who look to her both for inspiration and as a formidable rival. saheeli doesn't shy away from competition; when it comes to defending her hard-earned reputation, she is fiercely cutthroat. but when not in contest, she's wholly supportive of the efforts of other inventors, happy to share advice, a kind word, or an encouraging smile. she thrills at the prospect of innovation, and basks in the creative spirit that surrounds her in ghirapur. her bright, optimistic personality draws others to her, and her genuine, thoughtful nature resonates with her fans, who hail from all corners of kaladesh. saheeli's talents extend beyond what the people of kaladesh realize or understand. she's a planeswalker with a powerful magical command over metal. she can access seemingly endless threads of metal, which she can then weave into one of her creations. and once created, saheeli's magic allows her to compel her metal constructs to do her bidding. thanks to her abilities, she's never at a loss for an artifact companion. the pentagon has placed an order for a prototype augmented reality display system that is based on dual focus contact lenses with an expanded field of vision. the system, called ioptik and developed by innovega, allows the wearer to focus on a hud at the same time as the surrounding environment by projecting an image onto different sections of the lens. hud information goes through to the center of the pupil, and light from the wearer's peripheral vision is filtered out to avoid interference. the us military already uses huds on the battlefield, but they require bulky equipment and the wearer must actively focus on the information displayed. however, ioptik uses a lightweight eyewear system that doesn't look entirely dissimilar to what google has proposed with project glass, and innovega claims significant performance benefits over traditional huds. speaking to the bbc, innovega ceo steve willey said that the pentagon contract will allow the company to start prototyping and evolving potential uses for ioptik, with eventual consumer applications such as 3d movies, gaming, and project glass-style augmented reality eyewear being proposed. willey says that ioptik lets you do "something that humans don't usually do," and following the recent 3d "revolution" we're not entirely sure that's a good thing. still, the recent surge of interest in this kind of technology is certainly an intriguing development. i edit and improve most of my posts after i initially place them. i will not hesitate to do this, and without cross-outs, as my main goal is to teach and discuss clearly and well, to help with understanding and good idea creation, not to leave a historically accurate evolution of my writing. in fact, if you think the writing of a post has clunky spots or mistakes, you might want to try looking at it hours or days later. these things may be fixed, plus valuable new material may have been added. my writing really tends to improve with seasoning. i will, however, note if i have made a major change of opinion, or corrected an important mistake of fact that could be substantially harmful to a person or party. this is subject to interpretation, however. for example, if the post was up for two minutes before i fixed it, i may not write a correction note. unless my blog traffic greatly increases, it's unlikely many people, or any people, saw it. a new technology developed by researchers at a swiss institute can map the human brain in unprecedented detail without distorting the architecture of the brain. the results also showed that our brain may not be as compact as generally thought. to study the fine structure of the brain - including its connections between neurons and the synapses - scientists generally use electron microscopes. however, the brain tissue must first be fixed to prepare it for this high magnification imaging method. this process causes the brain to shrink and as a result, microscope images can be distorted - showing neurons to be much closer than they actually are. the team from swiss federal institute of technology in lausanne have now solved the problem by using a technique that rapidly freezes the brain, preserving its true structure. the researchers graham knott, natalya korogod, and carl petersen successfully used the innovative method called "cryofixation" to prevent brain shrinkage during the preparation for electron microscopy. the method uses jets of liquid nitrogen to "snap-freeze" brain tissue down to -90 degrees celsius within milliseconds. the brain tissue here was mouse cerebral cortex. "the high-pressure 'cryofixation' is a very attractive method for brain imaging," knott said, adding that the results showed our brains may not be as cramped as previously thought. the team is now aiming to use the technique on other parts of the brain and even other types of tissue. the work was published in the journal elife. the bbc's one show is heading out on the road for the very first time to sheffield. hosts alex jones and matt baker will broadcast live from endcliffe park in the city on wednesday 29 august. the roadshow, which starts from 12:00 bst, will give adults and children access to interactive performances, from a wildlife show with mike dilger to inventor marty jopson hosting a science display. pop vocal coach carrie grant will also be there, asking members of the public to take part in a choir celebrating sheffield's history. a number of the one show experts will be on hand to give out advice and information on various subjects including money, art, sport, science, gardening and history. the day is free, with no advance tickets required. newly promoted european league of legends championship series team misfits have announced the acquisition of former kt rolster and invictus gaming jungler lee "kakao" byung-kwon to round out their 2017 lineup. the team announced the move in a video on their youtube channel. kakao hasn't played with a top-tier team since leaving ig at the end of 2015, so a move to misfits will provide him another chance to prove himself as one of the world's premier junglers. he is widely known not only for his strong performances on summoner's rift, but also for his personality, which he demonstrates in the team's announcement video. the youtube post featured the expected misfits starting five, with kakao joining barney "alphari" morris, tristan "powerofevil" schrage, steven "hans sama" liv and lee "ignar" dong-geun. powerofevil and kakao will represent new additions to the team looking to make a mark in its first season in the top flight, having changed ownership in june and subsequently dominating the european challenger scene, earning a spot in the lcs after defeating fc schalke 04 in the summer promotion tournament. nineteen of the assyrian christians seized by islamic state militants last week in northeastern syria have been freed, and they met with church officials in a cathedral in the city of hasaka, local leaders said sunday. three of those freed were women, and according to videos and photographs, some appeared to be elderly men. dawoud dawoud, an official with the assyrian democratic organization, said that islamic state fighters were reported to be looting some of the villages they seized along the khabur river, where many of the hostages were captured. scores of the captives remain unaccounted for, though sunni arab local leaders have been mediating between assyrian christian leaders and islamic state militants to free the rest, officials said. meanwhile, the united states-led coalition against the islamic state bombed targets near hasaka for the third day in a row, according to central command. the strikes suggested a stepped-up operation in response to the advance by islamic state militants that drove more than 1,000 of the assyrian christians, a minority in syria, from their homes. australia should concentrate its clean energy funding on research, the federal independent mp tony windsor says, rather than controversial schemes such as ''pink batts or cash for clunkers''. mr windsor, a member of the government's multi-party climate change committee, spent last week researching clean energy facilities and policy-making in europe, including an inspection of torresol energy's 20 megawatt gemasolar power station near seville, spain. ross garnaut, tony windsor and santiago anas on the hunt for renewable energy solutions. gemasolar uses 2650 mirrors to concentrate the sun's rays on to the top of a central ''power tower'' and heat salt to more than 500 degrees. the molten salts store heat that is slowly released to power a steam turbine, generating enough electricity for 25,000 households. last month, gemasolar became the first solar thermal power station to supply electricity into the grid for 24 hours - including throughout the night - a key test for solar energy's ability to provide baseload power. next year china will overtake japan to become the world's second-largest economy. its rapid ascent has led some to question whether china will follow in japan's footsteps, with the bursting of a massive bubble followed by years of decline. but china is still far poorer than japan was at its peak, and thus has more room to improve productivity. a transition of surplus labour from agriculture to industry and services would increase efficiency and bring its economy more in line with the developed world. and china's stimulus package has produced much needed infrastructure that will reinforce future growth. but in the long run, a shift away from investment and exports towards domestic consumption would make china's output more sustainable, and help it to avoid experiencing a bubble like japan's. hello keith kohn, a 2013 mundelein graduate, has qualified to represent the united states at the maccabi games in israel this summer. the maccabi games are the third largest international athletic competition in the world. kohn is the team captain of the uic men's gymnastics team. he took silver on rings in the international qualifier. with a degree in communications and also studying management, kohn plans to work in public affairs and relations as well as some sort of management. kohn has an intensive academic schedule along with organizing events and working part-time as a state senator's press aide. "i do plan to continue to train gymnastics after graduation, although it remains to be seen for how long," he said. while at mhs, kohn earned silver and bronze medals at the 2013 men's junior olympics national gymnastics championships in portland, ore. he finished 12th in the all-around while earning a silver medal on pommel horse and a bronze on rings. he also earned an academic all-american award in recognition of academic excellence at the event. sandusky, ohio -- cubs fans from all over the midwest are headed to cedar point - an amusement park just an hour away from cleveland - to celebrate their team after the amusement park's signature ride was renamed to honor the world champions. it all started with a bet. according to cedar point's head of public relations tony clark, they made a bet with six flags great america that if the cubs beat the indians, they had to make a video singing "go cubs go," and rename one of their rides after the cubs. we all know what happened next. so now you can take a ride on the "top thrill cubster" at cedar point. it's what they call an accelerator coaster, featuring a hydraulic launch system similar to what you'd find on an aircraft carrier that's capable of rocketing riders from 0-120 miles per hour in just four seconds. the coaster then sends riders straight up at a 90 degree angle - 420' in the air. then, you come over the top and twist straight back down to earth. although plenty of cubs fans probably still feel like they're walking on air. a woman recently wrote a stirring tribute of sorts to her husband, a homicide detective. the brief essay, titled "a moment of reflection," was posted, along with a photograph of a man sitting in the dark, to the facebook page of florida's palm beach county sheriff's office. tagged in the photograph is nelson ivan martinez. the tribute and the photograph is a powerful reminder of the quiet strength and dignity that law enforcement professionals and their families must bear as they see and hear about things most people would find unimaginable. regardless of what you think of american policing, it's important to remember that behind every badge is a human heart. behind every uniform is a man or woman who is faced with the possibility that they may be called upon to sacrifice their lives in the defense of themselves or others, and the unbending reality that what they see and do will never really be understood by the majority of the people they serve. demarcus cousins has a bit of a reputation as a hothead, and at times he's deserved it. cousins has led the league in technical fouls in both of the last two seasons and has finished in the top 5 every year he's been in the league. last year saw him get his 15th technical in a late february matchup with the houston rockets, meaning he'd get suspended for each ensuing technical. after that, cousins kept his temper in check for almost the entirety of the rest of the season before picking up one in the second to last game of the season, resulting in a suspension during that final game. this year, cousins doesn't want to risk that happening again, and so has apparently given himself a new goal. according to a picture from reggie evans' instagram, cousins has hung a sign up in his locker allotting himself just 5 technicals for the upcoming season. i think that's a noble goal. cousins is the best player on this team and he needs to lead by example. he showed in that month long stretch last year that he can control himself, and now he's got a chance to prove it over the course of an entire season. apparently the khl's expansion process is less complex than that of gary bettman's nhl. the russian-based kontinental hockey league has announced that it will expand into china, bringing an expansion franchise to the densely-populated capital of beijing for next season, according to the associated press. the team will share the 18,000-seat mastercard center with the beijing ducks of the chinese basketball association. this move will see the khl expand from its current 28 teams that are spread across seven countries in europe and central asia. it will also expose china's largest market to high-level hockey more than a half-decade before the city hosts the 2022 winter olympics. andong song recently became the first chinese-born hockey player to be drafted into the nhl when he was taken 172nd overall by the new york islanders. microsoft's 2016 build developer conference is starting tomorrow and we're packing our things now. as a special surprise, albeit a small one, we're pushing a quick update to the windows central app for windows 10 and mobile. build 27 of the windows central has one small but useful change: a dedicated feed for all our build coverage. you can find the same stream on main build hub here for the web, but for those using the app on mobile or pc you can just navigate over to get the straight scoop on all that is happening without missing a thing. of course, sometime next week once the build news and momentum dies we'll remove it. speaking of, we are exploring ways to let you pick and choose which categories to show on the navigation bar. it requires some configuration on the backend, but it is on our to-do list along with other improvements and features for comments, forums, etc. also note: the format this is for is a modern pauper format. if you're doing truer pauper, run rancor over hyena or spider umbra. my first attempt into a modern pauper format, if anyone has any suggestions that would be great. the idea is that i create a very hard-to-deal-with combo by loading up auras onto a hexproof creature. it works really well in pauper due to the lack of boardwipes. any other suggestions would really help though! edit: made some changes to the side-board for the format i expect to be facing. went 2-1 at our first tournament and won on tiebreakers some thoughts about match ups:this deck walks all over interactive decks that aren't ready for it, if you want to go to a tournament out of left field i would definitely run something like this. against combo decks, the match up is a bit worse, my one loss was to a kiln-fiend combo deck, the sideboard helps to some degree but if you dont get a hand with armadillo cloak for the life gain, or a fog you're dead in the water. baton rouge-- a senate committee has approved a metairie lawmaker's proposal to require drug testing of welfare recipients, despite concerns the bill may be unconstitutional. republican john labruzzo says the courts should decide whether it will be overturned, similar to a program in florida. at issue is whether the proposal authorizes search and seizure without probable cause. labruzzo says random drug testing would help break the cycle of addiction among welfare recipients. critics question the merit of targeting that group, saying drug use among welfare recipients is no greater than among the general population. the state already screens welfare applicants for drug use through an interview-based evaluation. the senate health and welfare committee voted 5-2 wednesday to advance house bill 7 to the full senate. the house already has passed the proposal. in november 2017, president robert mugabe was ousted in a military coup and was replaced by his former deputy, emmerson mnangagwa, who has his own long record of rights violations. during the military takeover, the army arrested and detained a number of mugabe's associates without providing information about the arrest, or places and conditions of detention. mnangagwa confirmed that elections will take place as scheduled, by august 2018, but did not address the issue of meaningful security sector, media or electoral reforms to ensure free and fair elections. prior to his ouster, mugabe had presided over intensified repression of peaceful protests against human rights violations and an economy on the brink of collapse. his administration disregarded the rights provisions in the country's 2013 consitution, and implemented no meaningful human rights reforms. widespread impunity for abuses by police and state security agents remained. zombies are grey, move very slowly and change direction randomly and frequently unless they can see something moving in front of them, in which case they start walking towards it. after a while they get bored and wander randomly again. if a zombie finds a survivor standing directly in front of it, it bites and infects them; the survivor immediately joins the ranks of the undead. survivors are pink and run five times as fast as zombies, occasionally changing direction at random. if they see a zombie directly in front of them, they turn around and panic. panicked survivors are bright pink and run twice as fast as other survivors. if a survivor sees another panicked survivor, it starts panicking as well. a panicked survivor who has seen nothing to panic about for a while will calm down again. a south korean fisherman has found a suspected north korean drone near a frontline island south of the rivals' disputed sea border, military officials said. the wreckage, without a wing, engine or camera, was recovered when it got caught in his net off baengnyeong island, a south korean defence ministry spokesman said. "its shape and colour were similar to those of the unmanned aerial vehicles discovered earlier," he said. in march and april, south korea retrieved crashed drones equipped with cameras in three different places, including baengnyeong island and the northern border city of paju. military officials said their memory chips contained pictures of border areas and the capital seoul, including the presidential palace. after a joint investigation with us experts, seoul claimed to have secured "smoking gun" proof that the three recovered drones were flown from north korea and had been pre-programmed to fly over south korean military installations. north korea angrily denied any involvement and accused the south of "fabricating" the evidence. the owner of a nottinghamshire snake sanctuary has died after apparently being bitten by one of his own animals. luke yeomans, 47, was due to open the king cobra sanctuary, in eastwood, to the public this weekend. police confirmed they were called to a property in brookhill leys road, near eastwood, where mr yeomans had suffered a suspected heart attack. officers confirmed the snake had been contained and there was no danger to the public. depleted habitat it was also confirmed the victim was pronounced dead at the scene. the rspca, health and safety executive and broxtowe borough council have been informed of the incident. nottinghamshire police said an investigation into the circumstances surrounding the death was under way. in an interview with the bbc earlier this year, mr yeomans said he had started the sanctuary in 2008, in reaction to the depletion of the snake's natural habitat in the forests of south-east asia and india. he said he had always been obsessed with snakes, catching his first adder at the age of seven and sharing his bedroom with a collection of gaboon vipers and indian cobras in his teens. at the age of 16 he opened his first pet shop, specialising in snakes and other reptiles and two years on he started to breed his own. mr yeomans compared his passion for snakes with other people's obsessions with fast cars. "people do say that i am mad but i say it's better than people saying you're bad. i think everything i am doing is good," he said. there's no escaping that 3d trend , that's for sure. both asus and msi are demoing 3d versions of their respective all-in-one pcs here at cebit, though both companies say they are just concept models at this point. asus' 3d eee top wasn't up and running, but there was a pair of nvidia-branded glasses next to it which hints that they may be exploring putting 3d vision into its touchscreen system. we had better luck at msi, where we got to put on a rather large pair of shades and watch some very happy show-goers play left 4 dead in 3d. we're not sure what to make of the 3d in a touchscreen all-in-one thing, but it was pretty cool to just tap the screen to enable some three-dimensional images. hit the break for a quick video of msi's 3d wind top. we know that detention, particularly when it exceeds six months, leads to serious trauma. we know the damp, hot conditions in nauru and manus island, in papua new guinea, have led to serious skin conditions and increased risk of vector-borne diseases. the reports of poor sanitation and open water sources dramatically increase the risk of disease. we have seen one death in manus island from sepsis from a cut foot. the statistics on mental health conditions in detention are shocking in both adults and children. and why do we have this evidence? it's because my colleagues, dedicated physicians and paediatricians working in these centres to provide the health care the detainees so badly need, have been brave enough to speak out about the sometimes appalling conditions inside these centres. of course it would be better if doctors did not have to be there, that the centres would be closed, but while they remain open, it is my colleagues who deliver the medical support. to date, they have spoken out in the face of confidentiality agreements which attempted to force their silence on return. now, it seems, the government wants to jail them for speaking out. the quiet passing into law late last month of the australian border force act is an attempt to further restrict the australian public's access to the truth about conditions in the immigration detention centres. sydney will miss out on hosting the socceroos' biggest world cup qualifying match for the third successive campaign, with the japan home fixture set to be played in melbourne. fairfax media understands australia's game against their asian rivals will likely be played at the mcg on october 11 in preference to sydney's allianz or anz stadium. football federation australia invited bids from state bodies to secure the hosting rights of the most high-profile of the socceroos' qualifying matches and is understood to have reached an agreement in principle with the victorian government and the mcg with a deal to be formally sealed soon. an ffa spokesman said a deal has not yet been reached. however, the nsw government and venues in sydney now hold little hope of securing the match with melbourne expected to be awarded hosting rights. half of all american children will witness the breakup of a parent's marriage. studies in the early 1980s showed that children in repeat divorces earned lower grades, and their peers rated them as less pleasant to be around. teenagers in single-parent families and in blended families are three times more likely to need psychological help within a given year. compared to children from homes disrupted by death, children from divorced homes have more psychological problems. following divorce, children are fifty percent more likely to develop health problems than two parent families. most victims of child molestation come from single-parent households or are the children of drug-ring members. a child in a female-headed home is 10 times more likely to be beaten or murdered. seventy percent of long-term prison inmates grew up in broken homes. people who come from broken homes are almost twice as likely to attempt suicide than those who do not come from broken homes. sunderland footballer titus bramble is facing a third sexual assault charge. the 30-year-old, of wynyard, teesside, was accused of indecently touching two women in separate incidents in yarm in september. at teesside magistrates' court, he was told an additional sexual assault charge relating to one of the existing complainants was to be added. the defender denied the new charge. he had already denied the two original charges. mr bramble was formally cleared of a charge of urinating in a public place after the prosecution said it was no longer being pursued. the case was committed to crown court and a trial will take place on a date still to be set. the player started his career at ipswich town and also played for newcastle united and wigan athletic. this page houses a gallery of an almost infinite number of images. the curator, a universal image generator, has the sole purpose of exhaustively displaying everything that can be displayed in this 32x32 4-bit space. although each image appears chaotic and random, the tiny bit of math and code that generates each frame guarantees that there are never any duplicates. the curator will display every possible image exactly once, and then halt. this task will take many times the predicted lifespan of the universe to complete. between the static, everything imaginable will eventually make an appearance. if you watch long enough, you will see: the face of everyone who has ever lived, true images of your birth and death, all false futures, the face of everyone who will never exist, messages only you can interpret, messages no one can interpret, infinite empty space, every spec of dust, a pale blue dot, a patch of fuzz, and a lot more static. it's been just longer than two years since jon rudin and erin kirby took a tour of franconia brewing company's facilities in mckinney. brewers of all sizes offer tours as a way of connecting with customers, sharing knowledge and offering plenty of beer. this tour, however, came with an unexpected twist when one of the fermenting tanks exploded, covering the brewery in fledgling suds and allegedly injuring rudin and kirby. the tour group had just left the fermentation room and moved into the walk in cooler where finished beer is stored. that's when a pressure release valve failed, propelling it through the brewery, tearing apart a wall and filling the floors with beer. one of the attendees took a video as the group slowly made its way out of the cooler. the video clearly shows the damaged walls and tank, but the audio is nsfw. one of japan's largest organised crime gangs is reported to have split into rival factions, sparking fears of a turf battle. some key members of the kobe yamaguchi-gumi have left to form a splinter group in central hyogo prefecture, japanese media report. one member said they were unhappy at the way their former gang chief was collecting money. police said they would be on alert for any possible violence. the yamaguchi-gumi gang is the largest of japan's organised crime syndicates, known as the yakuza. police say it has about 23,000 members. yakuza gangs have been part of japanese society for a long time; there are believed to be about 60,000 members nationwide. the gangs themselves are not illegal, although much of their earnings are gained illicitly through gambling, prostitution, drug trafficking and, increasingly, cyber-hacking. the new group told reporters it would be called ninkyo daintai yamaguchi-gumi and, although it would not have a boss, would be represented by yoshinori oda, 50, a former executive of the old gang. the kobe yamaguchi-gumi gang was formed two years ago after powerful factions split away from the main yamaguchi-gumi group. an investigation is currently being conducted by the hse into a very serious data breach at the midlands regional hospital in tullamore which saw the private information of a patient being faxed in error directly to the office of the data commissioner. the private medical information was, in fact, intended for the patient's gp, but ended up on the desk of the data protection commissioner instead. the data breach at tullamore hospital was just one of 212 such incidents recorded by the hse last year, and revealed in the latest report from the data protection commissioners office. the major blunder which took place in tullamore was just one of many highlighted, among them being an incident in drogheda where the files of a patient were scattered by the wind as a staff member was carrying them between two buildings on the grounds of the hospital. two of the pages were never recovered. throughout his 12 years, cody green battled leukemia like the bravest of warriors. for that, he was named an honorary marine just before he died. the indiana boy was first diagnosed with the disease at 22 months, and drew strength from the courage of the marine corps as he fought his way into remission three times, wlfi reports. but as his body struggled to fend off the infection that ultimately took his life on saturday, the marines stepped in to show how much they respected his will to live. "they decided cody, with the strength and honor and courage he showed through the whole thing, he should be a marine," cody's father, david snowberger, told the news outlet. cody was given marine navigator wings and was named an honorary member of the united states marine corps. one member stood guard outside of his hospital room for eight hours straight the night before cody passed away, according to wlfi. pt100's are high temperature, high accuracy temperature sensors that you can now on your e3d-v6 hotend instead of a thermistor or thermocouple. pt100's are able to measure higher temperatures than thermistors - upto 400c, and are more accurate then both thermistors and thermocouples in general. our pt100 sensors are also very easy to handle, being of a metal cartridge construction that is secured with a set screw, no more fiberglass sleeving or clamping washer. if you want experiment with printing the crazy high temperature materials, get more accurate temperature readings, and have a much more robust and easy to assemble temperature sensor then a pt100 is an ideal option. this is a kit that provides everything you need to get up and running with a pt100 sensor on most machines. requires a controller board that is running marlin or repetier with a spare analog input pin. this kit contains a pt100 sensor, an electrical amplifier board to connect the pt100 to your printer controller board. this kit is compatible with all e3d hotends. german police on tuesday arrested six syrian refugees suspected of preparing a terror attack in the name of the islamic state jihadist group, prosecutors said. the suspects, aged 20 to 28, were detained in dawn raids that saw some 500 police officers swoop on residences in the cities of kassel, essen, hanover and leipzig. the men are accused of belonging to "the foreign terrorist group that calls itself the islamic state", christian hartwig, a spokesman for the frankfurt prosecutor's office, said in a statement. "the accused are also suspected of preparing an attack on a public target in germany using weapons or explosives," hartwig said. the investigators believe the men had not yet finalized their attack plan, he added. the suspects arrived in germany between december 2014 and september 2015 at the height of europe's migrant crisis. prosecutors declined to give further details about the case, saying the inquiry was still ongoing. german security forces have been on high alert to the threat of islamist attacks, particularly after a truck rampage claimed by is killed 12 people in berlin last december. last month, police arrested a 19-year-old syrian suspected of preparing an islamist terror attack in the country using "powerful explosives". domestic security officials estimate there are some 10,000 radical islamists in germany, with roughly 1,600 among them suspected of being capable of violence. we want to do something different. we'll make a free custom mockup of your new site before you pay for or commit to anything! here's how it works: just enter your email below and we'll reach out to you within a few hours to set up a time to chat. to learn more about your needs for the new site. after our call, we'll send you a short website questionnaire to learn more about you, your customers, and design preferences. once we receive your completed questionnaire, within 5 days we'll send you a mockup of your new site and a proposal with the price and timeline of the project. if you like the mockup and proposal, we will move forward working together! if not, there are no hard feelings. rebels in eastern democratic republic of congo killed three indian peacekeepers in an apparent ambush. dozens of machete-wielding men dressed in raffia palms attacked as soldiers opened a fortified base to help a group of civilians, the indian army said. the attackers are thought to belong to the mai mai militia group, blamed for contributing to the violence that has disrupted the region for years. the motive for the night attack is unclear, the indian army said. jungle attack a group of five congolese civilians came to the base, operated by the un's peacekeeper mission, known as monusco, in the town of kirumba. "they asked the post for assistance. while they were engaging the guard in conversation, a group of approximately 50 rebels attacked the post from the surrounding jungle," an indian army statement said. the soldiers opened fire and drove the rebels away, but not before three indian soldiers were killed and seven wounded, it added. nearly 4,000 indian army soldiers are part of the un congo peacekeeping mission. repeated rebel attacks in congo have called into question the ability of the un force to protect civilians. standing on the steps of the senate building, chancellor anders blaine announced the senate's decision on the succession. in a historic selection, and as a result of a clear majority vote, arissa lavigny-duval will be the next ruler of the empire. she will be the first female leader of the empire since marlin duval founded the original colony on achenar in the 23rd century, although she will carry the title 'emperor' rather than 'empress'. such an appointment would have been impossible prior to the reign of hengist duval due to an ancient decree that all imperial rulers be male, but a ruling passed by the late emperor early in his reign did away with this generations-old tradition. the news has been almost universally celebrated, and even princess aisling duval offered her support for the appointment. the celebrations are likely to continue until the coronation ceremony in a week's time. not everyone agrees with the senate's decision, however. in a statement, emperor's dawn declared the selection of arissa lavigny-duval "a desecration of the traditions of the empire". the organisation has vowed not to allow the ceremony to happen. residents are being asked to steer clear of the area at new dundee road and fischer hallman road in the southwest kitchener area after a wheat fire broke out late tuesday afternoon. deputy fire chief rob martin said that while it is not yet known what caused the blaze, there is no immediate risk to public safety. mutual aid is in effect, with north dumfries fire, new dundee fire and kitchener fire crews on the scene. it is too early to assess the damage. martin said there are a number of structures at risk, and at this time it is not known exactly what those structures are. the dry conditions may make it more difficult says martin, of the crop field. he asks residents and "inquisitive minds driving by" to stay clear of the area to allow fire crews to shuttle water back and forth from the scene. metairie - saints coach sean payton says it remains unclear whether quarterback drew brees will play in sunday's home finale against the jacksonville jaguars. brees injured his right foot in monday night's loss to detroit, but never missed a snap. payton says brees has had an mri and is awaiting a second opinion from another doctor before deciding how to move forward. the saints, who've been eliminated from playoff contention, did not practice on tuesday and did not have a practice scheduled wednesday. brees is scheduled to meet with reporters thursday afternoon. if brees cannot play, the saints' backups are veteran matt flynn and rookie garrett grayson. brees passed for 341 yards and three touchdowns monday night, eclipsing 4,000 yards for a 10th straight season. the original super lemonade factory was a gorgeous but flawed indie platformer with some intriguing elements. we gave the game a bronze award at review, calling it "an enjoyable little platform game". we then added that "super lemonade factory has a few nice ideas, but it can't quite see them through to fruition". so, when a sequel was announced, we were cautiously optimistic. we were hoping that developer initials could build something special on the solid foundation of the original. well, super lemonade factory 2 is out on the app store right now, so you can go and find out for yourself. though the same character-swapping mechanic as the one in the original is present here, initials has expanded the universe. so, there are now bigger levels and a globetrotting story involving sydney, new york, and a military base. there are still some esoteric exchanges between the characters, mind, and it still looks ruddy gorgeous. you can have a swig of super lemonade factory 2 on the app store right now. and it won't cost you a penny to do so. cult hero anthony mcdonald-tipungwuti sensationally returned to form on saturday night with a 4 goal effort as part of the essendon forward line that was firing on all cylinders. after a string of poor games that were below his par compared to his solid start to the season, tippa played one of the best games of his burgeoning career. while he was predominantly involved in the opening flurry of activity on the essendon goal-face, he was consistent throughout the whole contest. one of the quickest players in the essendon squad, there were several passages of play that he started in the defensive 50, only to use his pace to support the same passage of play at the other end of the ground. tippa was unlucky not to hold onto the ball when he launched himself onto jack hombsch's shoulders in the goal square for what could have been mark of the year, but more than made up for it in the last quarter when he pulled a move that eddie betts would have been impressed with. finding himself on hemmed in on the boundary by defender hamish hartlett, he handballed the ball past the man, shook him off, and collected it once more to snap a fantastic goal. there are better and more important players in the essendon squad, but there are few with more x factor, and as his game nous improves, he's only getting more spectacular. why is this an either or proposition? we need both brannon and amash in congress. in a perfect world we'd have hundreds of ron paul type candidates speaking bluntly on foreign policy. it's not a perfect world, as we both know. now the only way to get somewhere near that perfect world is to get more of these transitional candidates who are decent liberty candidates that also know how to play the political game. they will plow the field so its easier for plain speaking liberty candidates to run in the future. and if our current liberty candidates do a really great job at educating the public over time maybe we can dispense with "playing the game" and parsing our words all together. that's my reasoning and the future i'm working toward. the hedonistic imperative outlines how genetic engineering and nanotechnology will abolish suffering in all sentient life. the abolitionist project is hugely ambitious but technically feasible. it is also instrumentally rational and morally urgent. the metabolic pathways of pain and malaise evolved because they served the fitness of our genes in the ancestral environment. they will be replaced by a different sort of neural architecture - a motivational system based on heritable gradients of bliss. states of sublime well-being are destined to become the genetically pre-programmed norm of mental health. it is predicted that the world's last unpleasant experience will be a precisely dateable event. two hundred years ago, powerful synthetic pain-killers and surgical anesthetics were unknown. the notion that physical pain could be banished from most people's lives would have seemed absurd. today most of us in the technically advanced nations take its routine absence for granted. the prospect that what we describe as psychological pain, too, could ever be banished is equally counter-intuitive. the feasibility of its abolition turns its deliberate retention into an issue of social policy and ethical choice. one of the most fascinating and promising developments in genetics is the crispr genome editing technique. basically, crispr is a mechanism by which geneticists can treat disease by either disrupting genetic code by splicing in a mutation or repairing genes by splicing out mutations and replacing them with healthy code. researchers in china at the third affiliated hospital of guangzhou medical university have successfully edited genetic mutations in viable human embryos for the first time. typically, to avoid ethical concerns, researchers opt to use non-viable embryos that could not possibly develop into a child. previous research using these non-viable embryos has not produced promising results. the very first attempt to repair genes in any human embryos used these abnormal embryos. the study ended with abysmal results, with fewer than ten percent of cells being repaired. another study published last year also had a low rate of success, showing that the technique still has a long way to go before becoming a reliable medical tool. however, after experiencing similar results with using the abnormal embryos again, the scientists decided to see if they would fare better with viable embryos. the team collected immature eggs from donors undergoing ivf treatment. under normal circumstances, these cells would be discarded, as they are less likely to successfully develop. the eggs were matured and fertilized with sperm from men carrying hereditary diseases. legally, australians have a right to self-defence. what we don't have is the practical ability to exercise that right. owning any object for the purpose of self-defence, lethal or non-lethal, is a criminal offence. those trapped within the lindt cafe were left helpless, as carrying items for self-defence is not allowed under state law. what's worse, the offender possibly knew it. martin place siege: could it have been averted if the customers had been armed? prohibited self-defence items include pepper sprays, mace, clubs and personal tasers. in some states, carrying a pocket-knife is illegal and even wearing a bullet-proof vest is banned. those agile enough to retreat from an assailant can do so, and it is lawful to use items at hand such as screwdrivers, kitchen knives and beer glasses. but for those who are unable to flee, insufficiently strong, or with no improvised weapon, there is no option but to rely on the police. if it can happen in show business, it's happened to jon cryer. now he's opening up for the first time and sharing his behind-the-scenes stories in a warmly endearing, sharply observed, and frankly funny look at life in hollywood. in 1986 jon cryer won over america as molly ringwald's loyal and lovable best friend, duckie, in the cult classic pretty in pink, in a role that set the tone for his three-decade-long career in hollywood. he went on to establish himself as one of the most talented comedic actors in the business, ultimately culminating in his current turn as alan harper on the massively popular sitcom two and a half men. with the instincts of a natural storyteller, cryer charts his extraordinary journey in show business, illuminating his many triumphs and some missteps along the way. filled with exclusive behind-the-scenes anecdotes, cryer offers his own endearing perspective on hollywood, the business at large, and the art of acting. cryer has worked with some of the biggest and most provocative names in the business, and here, for the first time, he details his experiences with charlie sheen, john hughes, robert altman, molly ringwald, demi moore, judd nelson, and christopher reeve, among many others. he shares the intimate details of his friendships and relationships, pays tribute to his mentors, and explores the peculiar combination of heart, talent, and wisdom it takes to survive not just the bad times in a notoriously fickle industry but even the good times. in this revealing, humorous, and introspective memoir, cryer offers listeners a front-row seat as he reminisces about his life and experiences in showbiz over the past 30 years. it's well-known that the more adorable and charismatic of the endangered animals get most of the funding. that doesn't mean the cute animals, like the iconic panda, aren't worth saving, but it leaves a lot of the less photogenic but just as important animals out in the cold. who's interested in saving the brazilian bald-faced tamarin, which looks like a cross between a rabid monkey and a bat? or the komodo dragon, a 10-foot-long murderous lizard that's the embodiment of just about every childhood nightmare you ever had? that's where the ugly animal preservation society comes in. it's an awareness campaign that uses comedy to bring attention to animals like the pig-nosed frog, pictured above, which may otherwise have trouble getting funding. the uaps holds live events, where a combination of london comics and scientists discuss one ugly endangered animal of their choice. at the end of the show, the audience votes to decide which of those animals will become the mascot for each individual chapter of the uaps. they don't seem to be directly donating money; instead, the aim is to raise awareness, with the hopes that it will eventually lead to donations elsewhere. austin wayne underwood and jessica smith, from fort worth, texas, are both in their mid-30s and both have down syndrome -- in fact, that's what brought them together in the first place. underwood's mom, jan, has spent much of her life advocating for fair treatment to children with down syndrome. she became a resource for other moms who have kids with down syndrome to turn to for advice, fort worth texas magazine reported. when underwood and smith were 3 years old, smith's mom reached out to jan and they've been close friends ever since. according to the outlet, the families have spent every christmas together for the past 30 years, but in 2012, underwood decided to break the tradition. fortunately, he had a legitimate excuse. underwood took smith, who he has loved since childhood, for a drive in a limo to look at the christmas lights. when he stepped out of the car, he got down on one knee and proposed. the childhood sweethearts, who've decided they want a western-themed wedding, are set to marry this summer. the nsw greens' supreme decision-making body is being asked to consider the integrity of the ballot which saw dawn walker preselected to fill a seat in the upper house, opening the way for a push to overturn the result amid escalating factional tensions. in december ms walker won the ballot to replace retiring upper house member jan barham by just 13 votes over kelly marks, a former staff member in the office of the late greens mlc john kaye. dawn walker won the ballot to replace retiring upper house member jan barham in december. but the returning officers' report, obtained by fairfax media, states they "have identified areas of concern which may have bearing on the integrity of the preselection process". "while it is difficult to raise these issues for the consideration of the state delegates council, it is the role of the sdc to consider them as the supreme decision-making body of the greens nsw in order to make an informed decision about the outcome of the preselection," the report states. unless he was trying to get something off his face and head in addition to out of his ear, we're at a loss. our own cj fogler, who took the video above as well as this gif, thought - as you might have guessed, based on the gif's url - that shaq looked like someone who was tripping on acid. however, we highly doubt shaq was dropping acid, so that doesn't help us too much either. oh well - maybe it's best to leave this one a mystery. jazz highlights do strange things to people, apparently. using a digital tracking microscope that provides both cell position and orientation, we have correlated the detailed motion of the cell body of a fast-swimming bacterium, caulobacter crescentus, with its swimming motility. contrary to the prevailing view that the rotating flagellum is the only means to propel the cell, we show that when the flagellum pushes the cell, the axis of the cell body precesses with a helical trajectory that enhances motility. this discovery changes our understanding regarding the role that cell shape and motion plays in bacterial motility. furthermore, our powerful cell tracking technique enables a wide variety of studies that require extended observation of single cells, including motility, cell behavior, and aging. abstract we resolve the 3d trajectory and the orientation of individual cells for extended times, using a digital tracking technique combined with 3d reconstructions. we have used this technique to study the motility of the uniflagellated bacterium caulobacter crescentus and have found that each cell displays two distinct modes of motility, depending on the sense of rotation of the flagellar motor. in the forward mode, when the flagellum pushes the cell, the cell body is tilted with respect to the direction of motion, and it precesses, tracing out a helical trajectory. in the reverse mode, when the flagellum pulls the cell, the precession is smaller and the cell has a lower translation distance per rotation period and thus a lower motility. using resistive force theory, we show how the helical motion of the cell body generates thrust and can explain the direction-dependent changes in swimming motility. the source of the cell body precession is believed to be associated with the flexibility of the hook that connects the flagellum to the cell body. the electrical trades union has snubbed labor at its national officers conference this week, asking a federal greens mp to open the event for the first time. greens treasury spokesman adam bandt will be guest speaker on the first day of the etu's two-day conference in adelaide, starting on tuesday. no one from the federal labor party has been invited to speak on either day. the greens are on the attack in melbourne ports, angry with labor mp michael danby for saying he wants to preference the liberals ahead of the greens. credit:andrew meares it is the first time a greens mp has been invited to speak at the event and comes after the etu's fierce campaign against the china-australia free trade agreement was overrun by labor's support for the deal. mr bandt will use the opportunity to preview details of the greens' new energy policy, which will be released this sunday. john lloyd and sarah millican are joined by argumental comedian rufus hound, founder of the eden project sir tim smit and austria's leading archaeoastronomer doris vickers. this week, the professor of ignorance john lloyd and his curator sarah millican welcome rufus hound, the comedian, actor, politician and strictly come dancing winner; sir tim smit, who gave up being a music producer and took up gardening when he found the lost gardens of heligan and founded the eden project; and doris vickers, a woman from vienna who studied astronomy but woke up one morning with an overwhelming desire to learn latin, and who now combines the two disciplines as an archaeoastronomer. this week, the museum's guests discuss how people could tell the time at night before the invention of clocks; how politics could be transformed with obligatory wearing of lie-detecting suits; and why going ape in the mirror could help us see what makes us human. the show was researched by anne miller and stevyn colgan of qi. the producers were richard turner and james harkin. it was a bbc radio comedy production. the 6'1, 236-pounder has one carry for nine yards this season, but is yet to make his first catch as a longhorn, despite the promise from a member of the coaching staff that he would receive the first touch against notre dame in the opener if he committed. and though mcneal missed the iowa state game due to a football injury, it looks like he's healthy once again. with play caller jay norvell promising to play more young players after expressing frustration with the blocking effort and senior leadership of his players, mcneal could see more reps against kansas. if the longhorns are able to jump out to an early lead, it would be even easier for norvell to justify playing more of the freshmen and sophomores. mcneal was a consensus four-star prospect out of high school who was considered the nation's no. 20 athlete by the 247sports composite rankings. his pledge to texas last december with mesquite poteet teammate malik jefferson helped set the stage for the impressive finish to the 2015 recruiting class. the liberal democrats staged their own "alternative budget" in the house of commons. unlike yesterday's budget, which will be voted for by both coalition parties and become government policy, the liberal democrat budget is intended to put clear yellow water between the coalition's junior partner and the conservatives. but the proceedings quickly turned into a farce. for a start, most of the liberal democrats were elsewhere - just six backbenchers were present when alexander started speaking - and two of the party's secretaries of state didn't take the time to attend. most damningly of all, one very prominent liberal democrat couldn't be bothered to stick it out until the end: clegg was waved out by gleeful labour mps, with chris leslie describing the occasion as his final appearance in the commons. hamilton - the city says four new raccoon rabies cases have been found in hamilton, bringing the total to 10 found in the area over the past three weeks. the ministry of natural resources and forestry has been dropping vaccine baits over a large swath of land in and around hamilton to prevent its spread. the rabies cases in raccoons are the first seen in ontario in over a decade. the ministry has said they expected to find other cases in the same area as time goes on. the rabies outbreak only came to light after two dogs got into a fight with a sick raccoon in the back of an animal services van. the dogs remain in quarantine after being inoculated against the virus. a territorial dispute in an industrial part of melbourne's west is believed to have prompted a concrete and quarrying company to fence off part of a major bike trail, forcing cyclists to detour along busy suburban roads. the barro group, a long-standing family business with a string of construction interests across melbourne and interstate, has erected metal fencing and concrete barricades across the federation trail in hoppers crossing, where the trail backs onto one of its many properties. a family has closed off a bike path next to their property in werribee because they say it is on their land. vicroads has put temporary detour signs in place along local roads but could not explain on thursday why the path had suddenly been blocked off, or state whether the barriers would be removed. a section of trail running alongside skeleton creek, north of old geelong road, is now indefinitely out of bounds to the public. john gibbons is letting the world have a peek at his cards. the toronto blue jays skipper revealed to mlb network radio's jim duquette and jim bowden on friday that the club is currently engaged in talks with the oakland athletics regarding a possible trade for starter rich hill. hill, though, isn't the only starter the club is attempting to acquire before the aug. 1 deadline, as gibbons also confirmed toronto is interested in many of the prominent names floating around on the market. "i think we are in on everybody everyone else is," gibbons said. the bench boss' admission falls in line with earlier reports that the blue jays have become one of the most aggressive teams in the search for a starter in the past few days, according to espn's jayson stark. with the team keeping a close eye on breakout starter aaron sanchez's innings cap, toronto will need to bring in another name to replace the impressive 24-year-old in the rotation. millions of indonesian children are being vaccinated this week as the country responds to a widespread diphtheria outbreak that has killed dozens, officials said monday. some eight million children and teenagers across the southeast asian nation will receive the shot to prevent further spread of the disease which is caused by a bacterial infection. it can lead to breathing difficulties, heart failure, paralysis, and even death if left untreated. widespread incidents of the communicable disease are relatively rare in indonesia, although it had the second largest number of reported cases globally from 2011-2015, behind india, according to the world health organization. this year, nearly 600 cases have been detected in 95 indonesian communities across 20 provinces, killing 32 people. the vaccination programme started from monday in three of the country's most populous provinces, including the capital jakarta, and could continue into next month, officials said. the spike in cases is due to poor public awareness as well as a growing anti-vaccination movement in indonesia, the health ministry said. "diphtheria cases have been rare for a long time in indonesia, so people were no longer aware of the danger and did not take their children for vaccinations," senior ministry official jane soepardi told afp. officials hope to halt the spread before indonesia hosts the asian games next year. "it was not scary at all. my teacher told me we all must be vaccinated and it did not hurt either," ragil setiawan, a 10-year-old student at an elementary school in tangerang, just outside of jakarta, said monday after getting his shot. week 3 of the lcs is coming up and we know that our fans are waiting for news concerning our jungler for this week. we have decided to add stephen 'cloudnguyen' nguyen to our starter roster for week 3 of the north american lcs. cloudnguyen comes highly recommended and we feel confident after sufficient tryouts with the team that his play style will bring significant benefit to our lcs squad in the upcoming matches. we are in the process of carefully considering our full time jungler and head coach for the rest of the split. we want to be especially careful to not make a rushed decision on either consideration. we have received many fantastic and qualified applications for each position, and it will take time to process them. supporters of team dignitas, thank you for your patience and understanding while we work on the issues with our lcs squad. it's the line with a train every 22 minutes in the peak, which is almost as bad as peak-hour service levels get on melbourne's suburban rail network. as an added inconvenience for passengers on the altona loop, metro sometimes bypasses the line when its trains are running late, leaving them stranded without warning for the better part of an hour. jennifer williams at altona station, with its single-track railway. credit:joe armao "it's very unreliable, you can't tell whether you are going to get on a train or not," says jennifer williams, a spokeswoman for commuter body the altona loop group. the long wait between trains mostly comes down to the fact that the loop is a single track, which limits the frequency with which trains can run to a maximum of three an hour, and causes cancellations when even the most minor delay hits. on may 17, 1968, nine men and women entered the selective service offices in catonsville, maryland, removed several hundred draft records, and burned them with homemade napalm in protest against the war in vietnam. the nine were arrested and, in a highly publicized trial , sentenced to jail. this act of civil disobedience intensified protest against the draft, prompted debate in households in maryland and across the nation, and stirred angry reaction on the part of many americans. it also propelled the nine catholic participants - especially priest brothers daniel and philip berrigan - into the national spotlight. the catonsville action reflected not only the nature of the vietnam antiwar movement in 1968, but also the larger context of social forces that were reshaping american culture in the 1960s. this site is a resource for those interested in this nationally publicized event in maryland. the project was selected by the mdch advisory committee. fry to your heart's delight and prepare food to perfection with a powerful fryer from king kooker, outdoor gourmet or another trusted brand. whether looking for a turkey fryer for thanksgiving, electric fryers for simple setup or propane fryers for a classic look and feel, the fryers in our selection are sure to deliver. explore our entire selection of grills and smokers, including grill accessories and cast-iron cookware, to find everything you need to prepare food properly. clean performance look for greaseless and oil-less fryers in our selection to find fryers that are easy to clean up once the cooking is done. these fryers help save time and energy after cooking a big or complex meal. some fryers also have removable elements to further simplify the cleanup process, allowing you to focus on enjoying the meal you've prepared. fryer kits fryer kits come with both a fryer and cooking equipment like pots and pans, so you can start cooking right out of the box. sometimes these kits are designed for specific meal preparation, like turkey, helping to ensure the food is cooked properly. the federal government has turned down a request for funding to help fix a crumbling seawall in eastern cape breton. the seawall in the community of gabarus has buckled in several places from storms over the years. acting fisheries minister gail shea recently sent a letter to people in gabarus saying the wall is not a federal responsibility because it is located on provincial land. tim menk, with the friends of gabarus community group, has said ottawa needs to take ownership of it because homes may be at risk. last month, menk told cbc news the community would take legal action if the federal government continued to delay their decision. a report released earlier this year from the department of natural resources stated the repair or replacement of the 65-year-old structure is an urgent situation. a few weeks ago, gabarus began construction on a new fire hall funded by the community. on monday, menk said the fire hall showed that the community believes in its long-term future. "as dire as the consequences will be if the seawall isn't fixed in time, we know that in our hearts we love this community and it's got a future. we're making a commitment to that future here with our own labour," he said. flooding has caused significant damage to the community before. an earthquake in 1929 caused major flooding in gabarus. residents had to be taken out of their homes by boat. the federal government built the seawall in the 1940s and it was repaired in the 80s. for each nation has different customs and divergent laws and institutions, and should consolidate those things that are proper to it, and should form and develop out of the same nation the associations for the fusion of its life. for just as each animal mates with its own tribe, so it is right that each nation should marry and cohabit not with those of other race and tongue but of the same tribe and speech. for hence arise naturally harmony of thought and intercourse among one another and friendly converse and living together; but alien customs and divergent laws are likely on the contrary to engender enmities and quarrels and hatreds and broils, which tend to beget not friendship and association but spite and division. fox plans to make a television series out of ea's battlefield: bad company, deadline reports. you might remember bad company as that battlefield game that focused on a colorful single-player campaign rather than multi-player slaughtering. you might also remember it as the one with the grenade and the smiley face pin. it had a sense of humor. so no surprise that the show will reportedly be an action-comedy: fox has put in development bad company, an hourlong action comedy based on ea's bestselling video game from alias alum john eisendrath, sony tv and studio-based happy madison. written by eisendrath, bad company features the main characters from the game. it follows four renegade soldiers as they exit military life and enter the private sector. but trouble is never far behind as they realize their commanding officer had used them to further the ends of a shadow unit within the government and now wants them dead to cover his tracks. eisendrath is executive producing with happy madison's doug robinson and ea's patrick bach and patrick o'brien. a 1-ounce serving of brazil nuts has 186 calories and almost 19 grams of total fat per serving. as this is approximately six nuts total, eating too many brazil nuts can cause you to take in too many calories and accidentally increase your total fat intake per day, which, if it occurs on a regular basis, can lead to weight gain as well as other potential health problems including high blood pressure and diabetes. however, the majority of the fat in brazil nuts is unsaturated fat, which may help lower your cholesterol levels if it replaces saturated or trans fats in your diet. your total fat intake should make up no more than 25 to 35 percent of your total calories, which, for a 2,000-calorie per day diet, is between 56 and 77 grams of total fat. this means that a single serving of brazil nuts would provide 25 to 34 percent of your total fat requirement if you consume 2,000 calories per day. reuters recently assigned a number of photographers to capture images of a struggling generation. the result is this series of portraits of graduates from around the world who have been unable to find work in their degree fields and have ended up in poorly paid service industry jobs. although their current positions may be disappointing, the subjects in these photos may count themselves lucky to have any job at all -- the international labor organization estimates the number of people aged 15 to 24 without a job at almost 75 million. from a cook in athens with a degree in civil engineering to a waiter in algiers with a masters in corporate finance, these young people have spent years studying hard to compete in the 21st century, only to discover that even the most desirable qualifications mean little in a distressed global economy. changed crowd-control tactics by turkish police left istanbul dazed on saturday evening. but there were no deaths, only few injuries and fewer than 40 arrests as thousands of protesters surged against police lines in a failed bid to take central taksim square. the protesters' objective was to occupy the square and adjoining gezi park, where brutal police suppression of protests a year ago sparked nationwide outrage. beginning peacefully on may 31, 2013, the protesters' first objective was to block government plans to refashion the park as a mall, but the police crackdown spawned protests against the government on a portfolio of issues - and when the dust had settled eight protesters were dead and thousands wounded. on saturday, as many as 30,000 police, many of them in civilian garb, were flown and bussed in from across the country to take up positions around the square. before any protesters could make their way to the square all access was blocked. on this page is a collection of links to maps of us longhaul and intra-regional fiber networks. maps are links to material on company websites wherever possible. fiber may be owned or leased via long term iru. to be on this list, a provider should provide intercity transport services between at least 5 states. i realize 5 is arbitrary, but at the moment it seems to be a reasonable number. maps for pure metro and smaller regional providers will be collected on another page at some point. because these are links to external sites, they may get broken from time to time when pages are moved, updated, or simply deleted. this list will be maintained but i can do a better job if readers help out. so if you see a broken link please leave a comment or email the webmaster so i can fix it promptly. if you know of a network that should be here but has mysteriously slipped past my nets, please leave a comment - this is meant to be an inclusive list, not an exclusive one. have your guy sit against the side of a small boat. he should lean back and keep his knees bent and legs apart while resting his arms on the edge of the boat. straddle his lap and take him inside you. carefully lean away from him and place your legs over his shoulders. then slowly rock back and forth until you both fall into a randy rhythm. carnal challenge 4 5 why you'll love it with the boat rocking beneath you and the water splashing, every move you two make will be magnified. for some, the potential for tipping over will up the thrill factor. cosmo hint if leaning back becomes uncomfortable, you can switch positions by lowering your legs and embracing each other in a bear hug. get our updated edition of the cosmo kama sutra: 77 mind-blowing sex positions, now! this is a posable action figure from the nendoroid series. from the good smile company website: from the popular "fullmetal alchemist" series comes a nendoroid of edward elric! he comes with three different face plates including his standard grinning smile, a tough-looking serious expression as well as an angry expression perfect for when anyone calls him short! he has specially articulated arm parts that allow him to be displayed with his hands together in his classic alchemy pose, and he also comes complete with parts to display his automail right arm revealed, along with parts to switch it out into a blade. he also comes with alchemy effect parts, a wall part being transmuted out of the ground and a special lower body part that allows him to be displayed crouching down. enjoy the adorable nendoroid edward in your collection! nendoroid alphonse elric will also be available for preorder soon, so be sure to display the brothers together! this finance app is being created to act as a convenient way to keep track of all of your payments, such as those for a house, car, phone, etc. the idea came to me when i was creating a spreadsheet to keep track of my car payments, as it helped me with my budgeting. it seemed a bit tedious and inconvenient to need my laptop just for that, so i decided to go ahead and make an app that will allow you to do it anytime, anywhere. for the first version of the app, it will start by having you name your payment and putting in the amount you owe. after that, you will get a form in which you can add all of the payments you made, similar to how you would put it into a spreadsheet. it will show the amount you still owe, the percentage of your progress, and the percentage of each payment compared to the amount you started with. the app will automatically update after each payment addition or removal. in future updates, i plan to add more features and statistics. four preston north end players have been called up to the provisional republic of ireland squad for the upcoming world cup qualifiers against georgia and serbia next month. alan browne, daryl horgan, greg cunningham and sean maguire have been named in the 39-man provisional squad by manager martin o'neill. it's a first call up for striker sean maguire who has been impressive in his two competitive appearances in a north end shirt, and caught the eye during a superb run of form for cork city prior to joining pne. alan browne and daryl horgan maintain their place in the squad, with a first call up in four years for defender and stand in captain greg cunningham after he has consistently performed in the championship over the past two seasons. browne made his senior debut for his national side against mexico back in june, while horgan made his first appearance for o'neill's side in march against iceland at the aviva stadium. the republic of ireland take on georgia on saturday 2nd september before a home tie against serbia on tuesday 5th september. o'neill's squad have won three and drawn three of their fifa world cup qualifiers so far in group d and sit in second place behind serbia going into the next two games. in a study suggesting that red wine might be the next big thing in breast cancer prevention, a study has found that women who drank just under two servings of red wine daily experienced hormonal changes that mimic the effects of a drug used to prevent malignant breast tumors from coming back. the study, published friday in the journal of women's health, found that consuming the same amount of white wine did not have the same effect in premenopausal women participating in the study. women intent on warding off breast cancer have been warned about alcohol consumption: as recently as november, a study found that women who consumed as few as three servings of alcohol a week increased their risk of developing the disease, which strikes one in eight american women at some point in life. white wine and other alcoholic beverages are believed to promote the conversion of androgens--"male hormones" such as testosterone, which circulate in all women's blood--into estrogen. and the greater a woman's lifetime exposure to estrogen--whether her own or estrogen that comes from medication or environmental sources--the higher her risk of developing breast cancer. a man has appeared in court charged with the murders of a mother and son in the west midlands. tracey wilkinson, 50, and son pierce, 13, were stabbed at home in greyhound lane in stourbridge on thursday. aaron barley, 23, of no fixed address, is also accused of the attempted murder of pierce's father, peter wilkinson, who remains in hospital. mr barley appeared at birmingham crown court and was remanded in custody. no application was made for bail. the court was told a trial would take place in the autumn and last up to two weeks. read more news for birmingham and the black country image copyright hall green retired greyhound trust image caption peter wilkinson pictured with pierce and his sister, lydia wilkinson, who laid flowers at the family home on sunday lydia wilkinson, the daughter of mr and mrs wilkinson and sister of pierce, visited the family home on sunday to see floral tributes. the 18-year-old student, who was at university at the time of the attack, said in a statement the family was devastated by their loss, adding her mother and brother were "extremely loved" by everyone. she said pierce was "a fun-loving and friendly, happy boy" and mrs wilkinson was "loving, caring and a wonderful mother and daughter". digg, the pioneering social news site whose traffic has been faltering, is poised to make a comeback, now that the company is again focused on improving and extending its service, digg founder kevin rose said wednesday. when the economy started going south in 2008, digg shifted its attention to generating revenue, moving engineers away from product development, he said at the techcrunch disrupt conference in san francisco, which is being webcast. as innovation stagnated for about 18 months, users lost interest and competitors benefitted, said rose, who answered questions from techcrunch founder and co-editor michael arrington and from audience members. "twitter and facebook have definitely taken a chunk of our traffic. if we're going to stand apart we need to try something new," rose said. if all goes as planned, digg will soon have a much stronger emphasis on content recommendation than it does now, allowing it to re-engage its users and attract many new ones, he said. "in my perfect world, six months from now you'll be able to come to digg and define your interests: audi cars, tea, whatever it is you're passionate about," rose said. based on that, digg will proactively suggest material to users, based on what others interested in those topics are finding useful and interesting. "if we can tackle that long tail of content, that's a digg that's four, five, 10 times the size we are today from a traffic standpoint," rose said, adding that the site currently attracts about 20 million unique visitors per month. however, the issue of land rights comes into play. as the owners of the land, the saudis appear to be playing by the rules. the area of the arizona desert where the saudis bought land is a region with little or no regulation on groundwater use. that's in contrast to most of the state, 85 percent of which has strict groundwater rules. local development and groundwater pumping have contributed to the groundwater table falling since 2010 by more than 50 feet in parts of la paz county, 130 miles west of phoenix. state documents show there are at least 23 water wells on the lands controlled by alamarai's subsidiary, fondomonte arizona. each of the wells is capable of pumping more than 100,000 gallons daily. "you can use as much water as you'd like, as long as it's put to a beneficial use, and you're not required to report your water use," said michelle moreno, a spokesperson for the arizona department of water resources, which has scheduled a public meeting for jan. 30 in la paz county to hear concerns from residents. davenport-- a new look and new name is changing a one summer music festival in the quad cities. alternating currents festival will replace the two day music festival river roots live and no longer be conjoined with ribfest. instead ribfest will join street fest. those are just some of the major changes to festival including the music being indoors. along with music, the new festival will now feature stand up comedy acts, film screenings and visual artists. more than 50 local and national acts will perform throughout the festival and organizers are releasing the line-up later this spring. "it allows us to really showcase the creative talent that we have here in the quad cities," says jason gilliland, director of the downtown davenport partnership. and while people are enjoying the different acts gilliland says it could get downtown davenport more attention. "it should be a lot of fun. we'll have a lot more content and different things for people to kind of explore. and while you're moving around and finding some of the different acts performing you can learn more about the downtown," says gilliland. the dates for the festival are to remain the same weekend on august 26th and 27th. for more information on the alternating currents festival click here. a feature film that includes explicit scenes of gay male sex has been banned by the classification board. i want your love, written and directed by young american filmmaker travis mathews, was due to screen at queer film festivals around australia. mathews recently collaborated with actor james franco on interior: leather bar, an official selection at sundance this year. it was a re-engagement with the controversial 1980 hollywood movie cruising, which starred al pacino. too sexually explicit: gay film i want your love has been banned from screening at film festivals in australia by the classification board. festival films are granted exemptions from the classification process. festivals provide synopses of the works they are screening; the board can then ask to see individual films. melbourne queer film festival director lisa daniel says that in her 15 years at the festival, i want your love is the first film that has been refused an exemption. it has been seen in many festivals around the world, and its distributors have told her this is the first time it has been banned. mathews is a well-known filmmaker, and the decision is an embarrassment for australia, she says. "in the donetsk sector, the occupiers used automatic grenade launchers and machine guns against the ukrainian fortified positions near the village of verkhniotoretske. they also fired the same weapons on the ukrainian fortified positions near the village of vodiane, which is in the mariupol sector. moreover, the defenders of the town of maryinka came under enemy fire in the afternoon," the report says. read alsoato hq update: 22 attacks on ukraine, one ukrainian soldier wounded on oct 23according to the press center, two ukrainian soldiers were killed in action as a result of militant attacks in the mariupol sector. another two fighters were injured while stepping on an unknown explosive device. "in addition, two more soldiers were killed and one was injured in the same way in the donetsk sector," the ato hq said. the navy has quietly lifted the suspension of a shipping contractor under investigation for possible fraud, allowing the company to compete for new work. in exchange, the company has agreed to pay for an independent audit that could help the justice department determine how much it may have overcharged the government. records show that the navy recently decided to reinstate inchcape shipping services, a company based in dubai in the united arab emirates. the move came after a federal judge questioned whether the service had presented enough evidence to justify the suspension. contracting experts said it was unusual for the government to turn to an outside auditor in this type of case, and some questioned whether an independent firm could do as thorough a job. the auditing firm must be approved by the justice department, which is conducting a civil fraud inquiry into whether the company systematically overcharged the navy in providing provisions and sewage-removal services for warships in the middle east and africa. officials said the audit could help spur settlement talks between inchcape and the justice department. summer has been great to the ducks recruiting class so far as they have picked up six new recruits in eleven days. following travis waller's commitment this morning, safety pj locke from beaumont, texas announced his commitment to oregon this afternoon. locke is 5'10, 189 lbs and a 3-star recruit according to recruiting services but has the offer list of a 4-star player. in addition to oregon, locke had offers from baylor, georgia, missouri, michigan state, notre dame, stanford, and ucla, among about 25 others. an excellent student, locke was also offered by top academic institutions like duke, northwestern, and yale. he is oregon's 11th overall verbal commitment and second in the defensive backfield, joining jihree stewart. it's been said before but anytime john neal picks up a defensive back, regardless of his ranking, you have to be excited. oregon has been as successful as anyone in the country at developing the position and putting guys in the nfl, and there is no reason to think pj locke will be any different. on film he shows ball-hawking ability and physicality, a hallmark of players who play the defensive back position at oregon. you can watch his highlight video below. my two year old loves giraffes so we thought this would be a cute gift for him. when he saw it, he immediately gave it a big hug and named it yellow. he now carries yellow all over the house as they play together. it is nearly as tall as him but seems to be very easy for him to carry. it is by far his favorite toy. at bedtime he makes sure that mom and dad tuck yellow in right beside him. i didn't think that it would be a very good toy for sleeping with, given the stiffness of the legs, but my son doesn't seem to mind at all. i would have given it 5 stars but the construction could be a little better. we found a small hole in him that appears to be the result of a flaw in the fabric. it is not in a stitched area so i don't believe that it is the result of stress. in time i'm afraid that it will become larger and yellow will have to be "retired". if that happens, we will be buying another! a skydiving santa looking to make a grand entrance while taking an elf on the shelf to a 9-year-old girl crashed into a tree and light pole before hitting a florida beach and breaking his leg. news outlets say george krokus was dressed as santa claus during a saturday skydive to deliver toys to the tampa bay beach bums operation santa charity volleyball tournament. madison spiers saw the crash and later found a note from the "elf" named kristoff who visits her house during the holidays. it said, "as we were about to land this big tree jumped right out in front of us!" she tells bay news 9 that kristoff is no stranger to adventure. the elf sported a bandaged leg while staying with the recovering krokus. losers in a "winning is everything" society, how do we handle failure? this series profiles athletes who have turned the agony of defeat into human triumph. my first first love a college student reluctantly lets a group of his friends move into his house, where they experience love, friendship, and everything in between. triple frontier loyalties are tested when five former special forces operatives reunite to steal a drug lord's fortune, unleashing a chain of unintended consequences. murder mystery after attending a gathering on a billionaire's yacht during a european vacation, a new york cop and his wife become prime suspects when he's murdered. shadow and bone sinister forces plot against a young soldier when she reveals a magical power that might unite her world. based on leigh bardugo's grishaverse novels. spinning out after choking during an important performance, a competitive skater dealing with family issues and her own inner demons struggles to revive her career. christmas in the wild after her husband leaves her, a stylish new yorker goes on an african safari alone and finds new purpose in her life. kristin davis and rob lowe star. yoohoo to the rescue in a series of magical missions, quick-witted yoohoo and his can-do crew travel the globe to help animals in need. the nsw state government will seek to change the law to give it the power to send in police to dismantle the homeless camp in martin place, effectively bypassing the city of sydney and its bid to resolve the issue amicably. the move will pave the way for the eviction of dozens of homeless people who have established a tent city in martin place, following a long-running stoush between the government and the city. at a press conference on tuesday afternoon, premier gladys berejiklian said the proposed legislation would be introduced to parliament today, and was expected to pass within days, to be enforced by the end of the week. the legislation would give the government the power to authorise the police "to be able to move in, take property and also ask people to move on if it's deemed to be a public safety issue", she said. the beta launch of the league of legends oceanic server went live today with riot games offering players free transfers and early rewards for a limited time, according to a post on the game's official forums by oceania manager mirko gozzo. for a limited time, gamers can join the oceanic beta server by transferring from the na, latam, russia, turkey, eune and euw servers for free. interested players can claim a free oceanic transfer token through the in-game store and hitting on the other tab. those who transfer early will receive rewards such as a 100 percent ip and xp boost "until after the beta is over," as well as ziggs and pool party ziggs. at launch, the oceanic server will cover australia, new zealand, guam, new caledonia, french polynesia, fiji and northern mariana islands. the server will provide english-language support, local servers and a dedicated oceania website. details and an faq can be read in full on the official league of legends website. riot games is celebrating the launch with an online tournament that will run from july 6 to july 14, with the top four teams heading to pax australia to compete for cash prizes. more information about the tournament will be provided soon. as presidential hopefuls eye the 2016 election and strategize about how to win over the increasingly important latino vote, they may want to heed the revelation of a new york times poll released this week regarding climate change. according to the poll, conducted by the new york times, stanford university and resources for the future, 54 percent of hispanics say global warming is very or extremely important with an additional 25 percent saying the issue is at least somewhat important to them. this is compared to the 37 percent of white respondents who said global warming is very or extremely important, and the 26 percent who said it was somewhat important to them. hispanics also were more likely than whites to feel that climate change will negatively affect them in their lifetime. 40 percent of latinos said it would impact them significantly, 27 percent said they expect a moderate impact and 17 percent said it would impact them a little. 17 percent of hispanics polled said climate change would have no impact on them whatsoever. for non-hispanic whites, 27 percent said climate change would impact them significantly, 21 percent said they expect a moderate impact and 17 percent said it would impact them just a little. 32 percent of whites said climate change would have no impact on their lives. the poll of 1,006 adults from across the nation was taken from jan. 7-22 using landline and cell phones. the margin of error for non-hispanic whites is 4 percent and 12 percent for hispanic adults. check out the full poll here and the in-depth new york times analysis here. 6 mix celebrates manchester with 808 state's graham massey, ahead of the 6 music festival. graham formed 808 state in 1987 alongside martin price and gerald simpson, who later went on to produce under the pseudonym a guy called gerald, and famously took their name from the roland tr-808 drum machines that they used. the band released their debut album newbuild in 1988 and the following year had huge commercial success with their track pacific state, which is widely regarded as one of the anthems from the madchester scene. in this programme graham picks a selection of musical influences ranging from miles davis to todd rundgren, before launching in to a special alternative manchester mix where he celebrates artists from the north west such as bicep, lone and crispy ambulance. here at the artificial lawn company, we are committed to supplying only the very best artificial grass products possible. we stock an extensive range of different types of synthetic grass, perfect for using in settings from domestic gardens to commercial businesses. however, with such a wide variety of different products available, how do you decide which is right for your needs? we understand the dilemma that this question can raise, which is why we offer artificial grass samples to help alleviate the problem. we always endeavour to put our customers first, which is why we offer free grass samples to help you make your decision. choose between specific samples or instead, you could opt for a full sample pack featuring some of our best-selling products. no matter which option you choose, you will soon be able to experience the exceptional quality of our artificial grass products first-hand for yourself. order your artificial grass samples and get started on the journey to a brand new look for your home, garden or business, simply input your personal details and information to the form below. once we receive your data, our dedicated team will then work to get your samples in the post and into your hands as soon as possible. if you are ready to get started and receive your synthetic grass samples, please submit the form below. one of the problems with tor traffic is that it can de detected and blocked. here's skypemorph, a clever system that disguises tor traffic as skype video traffic. to prevent the tor traffic from being recognized by anyone analyzing the network flow, skypemorph uses what's known as traffic shaping to convert tor packets into user datagram protocol packets, as used by skype. the traffic shaping also mimics the sizes and timings of packets produced by normal skype video conversations. as a result, outsiders observing the traffic between the end user and the bridge see data that looks identical to a skype video conversation. the skypemorph developers chose skype because the software is widely used throughout the world, making it hard for governments to block it without arousing widespread criticism. the developers picked the voip client's video functions because its flow of packets more closely resembles tor traffic. voice communications, by contrast, show long pauses in transmissions, as one party speaks and the other listens. sex work is criminalized not only through prohibitions on selling sexual services, but also through laws that prohibit the solicitation of sex, living off the earnings of sex work, brothel-keeping, or the purchase of sexual services. by reducing the freedom of sex workers to negotiate condom use with clients, organize for fair treatment, and publicly advocate for their rights, criminalization and aggressive policing have been shown to increase sex workers' vulnerability to violence, extortion, and health risks. this document provides ten reasons why decriminalizing sex work is the best policy for promoting health and human rights of sex workers, their families, and communities. removing criminal prosecution of sex work goes hand-in-hand with recognizing sex work as work and protecting the rights of sex workers through workplace health and safety standards. decriminalizing sex work means sex workers are more likely to live without stigma, social exclusion, and fear of violence. share pin it pin it share every street is filled with its own story or people who make the place more lively and memorable. even when you are just a passerby, you can already tell what happened in that area by just looking around. you may also notice how art can be found on its walls through what they call as street art stickers. most of the time, people who create these personalized stickers would just want to express themselves in a creative way. you can usually find them stuck on walls or public properties such as posts and benches. some find this type of decals fun while others do not spend time to gaze at them. it would really depend on how you see these as an art and a design to the place where the stickers have been placed. not everyone would have the same opinion as to the meaning and what message the artist wants to convey. nevertheless, it is still impressive that many are already inclined in making these things just to add more color to common places. since these are becoming popular nowadays, here is a good compilation of some of the creative street art stickers that were made to please those who would see them. adding colors and designs on streets with stickers hope that this set had inspired you to take a good look at your street. who knows, maybe there is one amazing street art sticker there waiting to get noticed. a 29-year-old woman has appeared in court charged with the murder of greenisland pensioner eddie girvan. margaret henderson, whose address was given as verner street in belfast, was remanded in custody. mr girvan, 67, was found dead in his home on station road by police on monday night. his hands were tied and he had a stab wound to his chest. a defence barrister said the accused was an "extremely vulnerable lady" with "complex needs". he told belfast magistrates court that she was "fragile" and "susceptible to others" and would require immediate care in custody. she replied "aye" when asked if she understood the charge. two men arrested in connection with mr girvan's murder were released unconditionally on thursday. for this project, i decided that the pegasus knights would be in groups of ten, with five blue and five red. the basis behind this is that communication with large squads would be hard when combined with the spacing of aerial combat, so i decided squads of ten including a commander, broken into two units of five mostly fixes this problem. having two different colors signify the type of combat that they mainly take part in, with blue units primarily taking on ground targets, while red units take on airborne targets. this split in role lets one half cover the backs of the second half by having units engaging different threat types in a coordinated manner, with every flyer knowing their role in the group. it also makes cordelia's red outfit work with the blue outfits that ally units have in the game. so here is the squad and unit that cordelia fights with. let me know what you think, and where improvements can be made. tri-rail service will be coming to downtown miami by the end of this year. the new service is on track to begin by the end of 2017 now that federal officials have signed off on the plan, according to a press release from tri-rail. of 50 daily trains that now run from palm beach county, 26 will terminate at miamicentral. the remaining 24 trains will continue to miami airport as they currently do. day one ridership for the new route to miamicentral is estimated at 2,000 passengers, according to the tri-rail website. all aboard florida is preparing to begin separate express brightline service from miamicentral to fort lauderdale and west palm beach later this year. plans for a tri-rail coastal link along the same tracks with local service from miami to jupiter are also in the works. good news for fans of retro platformers: the xbla version of spelunky finally has a release date, and it will be here soon! major nelson quietly announced spelunky's release date in his rundown of what's coming to xbla soon, and we couldn't be happier. spelunky is a novel, rogue-like indie platformer that features randomized levels. you only get one life to see how far you can make it through the sprawling underground cave system, but since the levels are different every time you play it, starting over isn't as frustrating as it sounds. the xbla version will feature updated graphics, new music, and a new 4-person multiplayer mode. if that's not enough to get you excited, check out the trailer below. or even better, try the free pc version for yourself. spelunky will be available on xbla on july 4, making it a perfect way to spend your evening after you're done eating hotdogs and blowing up stuff with fireworks. the worldwide turbulence of recent days is a strong indication that government intervention alone cannot restore the economy and offers a glimpse of the risk of completely depending on it. it is time to give the free market a chance. since the crash of 2008, governments have tried to stimulate their economies by a variety of means but have relied heavily on manipulating interest rates lower through one form or other of quantitative easing or simply printing money. the immediate rescue of the collapsing economy was necessary at the time, but the manipulation has now gone on for nearly seven years and has produced many unwanted consequences. it has exacerbated the inequality of income around the world. money has been artificially allocated by the abnormally low rates to reward speculation and to discourage savings and longer-term investments that produce real economic and employment growth. the federal reserve, waiting for signs of inflation to change its policies, seems to be looking at the wrong data. actually its policies have been highly effective in the areas stimulated most heavily, but the low interest rate policies have not stimulated the broad economy or made most people better off. in fact, it may have actually hurt those people. burma's military has continued to use rape as a weapon of war even after a nominally civilian government was elected in 2010, a women's group says. the women's league of burma said it had documented more than 100 cases, some involving children as young as eight. most rapes were carried out in areas where the army was still fighting armed ethnic groups, the organisation said. the government in burma, also known as myanmar, said using rape was not army policy and cases should be reported. most of the cases were linked to conflict in the border areas of kachin and northern shan state. nearly half of the cases were gang rapes, and 28 women were killed or died of their injuries, the organisation said. "their widespread and systematic nature indicates a structural pattern: rape is still used as an instrument of war and oppression," the report said. "sexual violence is used as a tool by the burmese military to demoralise and destroy ethnic communities," it added. presidential spokesman ye htut told reuters news agency the military did not "use rapes as weapons". "if there are rape cases committed by individual members, we try to expose them and take effective action against the offenders," he said. president thein sein has introduced major reforms since the elections of november 2010, which saw military rule replaced by a military-backed civilian government. the last three years have seen far-reaching political change in burma, but the army has so far shown little appetite for change, or altering the way it operates, says the bbc's jonah fisher in rangoon. a new round of talks is due to start later this month aimed at achieving a cease-fire in all of burma's ethnic conflicts, our correspondent adds. there's nothing more canberran than enjoying the natural bush close to home, especially at the nudist section of the kambah pools. since 1972, a corridor of the murrumbidgee river in canberra's south has been a sanctuary for those willing to shed their clothes and inhibitions. but while the prospect of public nudity may be confronting to some, an act nudist club spokesman said the kambah pool was a perfect location for those willing to experiment with nudity. "we do have people come to us who have never been nudists before and people certainly go to the kambah pools to try it out for the first time," he said. "you get a few people who say they'll just do it once but then find it far more comfortable to be without clothes. be open to your stepchildren's interests -- you never know what new activity you'll enjoy together. my stepdaughter and i play just dance on the wii, something i may never have tried without her. she loves fashion and i find it fun to browse in stores when i'm looking through her eyes. and remember that curiosity goes both ways. if you're an avid tennis player or horseback rider, and they show an interest, give it a shot! you might find yourself with a new hobby buddy. also, have some rituals that you share. because of our work schedules, my stepdaughter and i usually have breakfast together. it gives us time to catch up, and morning is usually the time when she's talkative and asking for all kinds of advice. remember that a step-relationship is created, and maintained, by the two people within it: parent and child. allison fishman is a food and lifestyle writer, author of you can trust a skinny cook and host of yahoo's blue ribbon hunter. she lives in new jersey with her husband and stepdaughter. the body of legendary radio host casey kasem has disappeared, a representative for his daughter kerri kasem said friday. kasem died june 15 and for more than a month his body remained at a gaffney funeral home in tacoma, wash. thursday, however, his daughter kerri learned that the body had been removed, reports abc news. kerri was not told where her father's body was taken or who had taken it, a family representative told multiple media outlets. a representative for gaffney funeral home confirmed to buzzfeed friday that kasem's body was no longer there, but did not say where it had been taken. while no one knows what happened to the body, a family representative pointed to his widow jean kasem as a likely culprit behind the disappearance. jean and kasem's children have a long-running feud that catapulted into the public eye in may when the radio host disappeared. kasem was later located in washington. on cape breton island in nova scotia, canada, you can find a square dance every weekend in the summer. the celtic colours international music festival, celebrating the region's ancestral gaelic music, is an annual highlight. other festivals include a boozy "pig and whistle" event and four-wheel mud rallies, which involve splashing through huge puddles on an off-roader. the cape breton town of whycocomagh has only about 400 residents, well over half of whom are retired. the owners of the local general store the farmer's daughter can find plenty of help in the summer when school is out, but in winter, able bodies are scarce. so the sisters who run the farmer's daughter, sandee maclean and heather coulombe, put up a help wanted ad on facebook. because the family owns almost 250 acres in the area, they decided to sweeten the deal by offering two acres of land to any new hire who stays around for five years. the only cost to the new hires would be the cost of the deed transfer, which usually runs a few thousand dollars, the sisters estimate. the obama administration announced tuesday that it would allow cuban citizens to work in the united states and receive salaries from american companies, a decision that could have a profound effect on the way major league teams sign cuban baseball players. under the new guidelines, which go into effect wednesday, it will now be legal for franchises to sign contracts directly with cuban ballplayers. previously, cuban players had to defect before they could sign with a major league team. the signings will be lawful under the decades-old american embargo provided that the salaries are paid directly to players and that no money goes directly to the government, making it unclear whether cuba would agree to such an arrangement for players still in the country. while no rash of signings of players from inside cuba is imminent, the new regulations promise to significantly alter the signing process for players who have already defected or who do so in the future. cylindrical mountains on venus image credit: magellan spacecraft team, usgs, nasa explanation: what could cause a huge cylindrical mountain to rise from the surface of venus? such features that occur on venus are known as coronas. pictured here in the foreground is 500-kilometer wide atete corona found in a region of venus known as the galindo. the featured image was created by combining multiple radar maps of the region to form a computer-generated three-dimensional perspective. the series of dark rectangles that cross the image from top to bottom were created by the imaging procedure and are not real. the origin of massive coronas remains a topic of research although speculation holds they result from volcanism. studying venusian coronas help scientists better understand the inner structure of both venus and earth. three kangaroos, including a foetal joey, have been killed, mutilated and dumped in suburban melbourne. lysterfield south resident robert bishop made the grisly discovery near his home, which borders the churchill national park, after hearing a group of men attacking the animals early on wednesday. "it's so horrific - i don't understand why anyone would do such a thing," mr bishop told aap on monday. he had ventured out after a loud bang, expecting to find hoons, instead seeing six young men hacking at a twitching kangaroo with a "big blade". feeling unable to take on the men, mr bishop yelled at them before retreating inside and calling police. once the men had left, mr bishop took photos of the disembowelled animals, including a decapitated foetal joey, which he has passed on to police and the rspca. a victoria police spokeswoman said they were investigating the matter. inadequate oxygen availability at high altitude causes elevated oxidative stress, resulting in hippocampal neurodegeneration and memory impairment. though oxidative stress is known to be a major cause of neurodegeneration in hypobaric hypoxia, neuroprotective and ameliorative potential of quercetin, a flavonoid with strong antioxidant properties in reversing hypobaric hypoxia-induced memory impairment has not been studied. four groups of male adult sprague dawley rats were exposed to hypobaric hypoxia for 7 days in an animal decompression chamber at an altitude of 7600 meters. rats were supplemented with quercetin orally by gavage during 7 days of hypoxic exposure. spatial working memory was assessed by a morris water maze before and after exposure to hypobaric hypoxia. changes in oxidative stress markers and apoptotic marker caspase 3 expression in hippocampus were assessed. histological assessment of neurodegeneration was performed by cresyl violet and fluoro jade b staining. our results showed that quercetin supplementation during exposure to hypobaric hypoxia decreased reactive oxygen species levels and consequent lipid peroxidation in the hippocampus by elevating antioxidant status and free radical scavenging enzyme system. there was reduction in caspase 3 expression, and decrease in the number of pyknotic and fluoro jade b-positive neurons in hippocampus after quercetin supplementation during hypoxic exposure. behavioral studies showed that quercetin reversed the hypobaric hypoxia-induced memory impairment. these findings suggest that quercetin provides neuroprotection to hippocampal neurons during exposure to hypobaric hypoxia through antioxidative and anti-apoptotic mechanisms, and possesses promising therapeutic potential to ameliorate hypoxia-induced memory dysfunction. microsoft teamed up with playcrafting to host a global game jam in nyc from january 29th-31st! over 300 people attended and jammed throughout the weekend. david kuelz gave his intro to narrative design for game developers talk at global game jam. david kuelz is a freelance writer and narrative designer based in new york. shortly after making his own game after, david founded awkward pegasus studios, a freelance writing and story consulting company that focuses on working with new developers and indie studios. he also teaches game writing and narrative design classes for playcrafting nyc and the gotham writers' workshop. a little about playcrafting: playcrafting empowers the game development community through education, networking, and collaboration. they offer workshops, classes, courses and events for game developers and those aspiring to make games in topics including game design, programming, art, business, and more. the next animated film to be released by dc animation will be batman: assault on arkham. what makes this movie so exciting is the fact that it's based in the world of the arkham video game franchise. the movie is a prequel that takes place two years before the first video game, arkham asylum. this new featurette gives us a sneak peek at the film including footage, storyboard art, and interviews with the cast and crew discussing the story and the characters. this is definitely a must watch for anyone who is a fan of these dc animated movies. batman: assault on arkham looks like it's going to be pretty awesome. the movie is being directed by jay oliva who says he wanted to direct it like a guy ritchie film. so they made it feel like a heist movie. the film features the voice talents of kevin conroy as batman, troy baker as joker, eliza dushku as killer frost, hynden walch as harley quinn, neal mcdonough as deadshot, matthew gray gubler as the riddler, and cch pounder as amanda waller. the movie will be released on dvd, blu-ray, and digital later this summer. this image shows a piece of machinery that is part of the cargo of a stolen truck. a united nations vehicle carrying radioactive materials was stolen in mexico monday while traveling to a radioactive waste storage center from the northern city of tijuana. the international atomic energy agency has said the truck was carrying cobalt 60, which is used as part of radiotherapy cancer treatments. the heist happened in tepojaco, and the iaea said the substance is "extremely dangerous" if removed from its protective shielding or damaged. the truck was found later on wednesday close to the place where it was stolen in mexico, said the director of the national commission of nuclear safety and safeguards juan eibenschutz. he said the container the truck was carrying was empty. eibenschutz said about a half-mile from where the stolen truck was found the cobalt 60 was discovered. he also said there is no risk so far to the surrounding population. for this edition of blast from the past, we're going back seven years to a day in 2010 when dave trained triceps. in the video, dave first demonstrates what he calls triceps hell and then explains the protocol. for dave's triceps hell, the set begins with a bar loaded to 275 pounds. with a close grip, dave does five reps to the one-board and then holds the weight. the one-board is immediately replaced with a two-board and dave does another five reps. this pattern continues up to the three-board, four-board, and five-board. after dave has done five reps to each board, he goes back down the boards, doing another set at the four-board, three-board, two-board, and finally the one-board. the final count for his set looks like this: one-board: 275x5 two-board: 275x5 three-board: 275x5 four-board: 275x5 five-board: 275x5 four-board: 275x5 three-board: 275x2 two-board: 275x1 one-board: 275x1 that's 34 total reps with 275 pounds. after his set, dave explains triceps hell and says that typically for this exercise you wouldn't go back down the boards. the official protocol is simply to start at the one-board and work up to the five-board, and then the set is finished. but because dave was feeling good during this particular session, he decided to go back down the boards as well, cutting the reps from five per board to doubles and then only a single on the final board. jordanian and syrian security forces have clashed in a border region between the two countries, a jordanian source said. the fighting broke out late on friday after syrian troops reportedly fired on syrian refugees crossing the border into jordan. "the syrian side fired across the border and fighting ensued. initial reports indicate that there has been no one killed from the jordanian side," said the jordanian source, speaking on condition of anonymity. a syrian opposition activist who witnessed the fighting said armoured vehicles were involved in the clash in the tel shihab-turra area, about 80km north of the jordanian capital amman, that occurred after syrian refugees tried to cross into jordan. "the syrians fired into jordan in pursuit of refugees and the jordanians responded. the fighting escalated and jordanian armoured vehicles hit two syrian border guard outposts," said the activist, giving his name only as abdallah. "the fighting was intense for an hour and now it is intermittent," he said. it was the most serious incident between the two countries since the uprising in syria against president bashar al-assad began 17 months ago. jordanian troops have fired near the border in the past to stop syrians from shooting at fleeing refugees. syria's long border with jordan has been an escape route for opponents of assad, including prime minister riad hijab who defected this week. there's likely a snarky comment about health care to be made following this comic, but i'm not qualified to make it. please speak your own if it suits you. pandora witnessing that moment really shouldn't surprise sarah much. pandora knew she'd used the spell, was able to deduce that sarah had virtually switched bodies with carol, and can be an active observer without anyone being able to sense her in any way. that said, sarah's kinda sorta focused on keeping a level head while having a conversation with a creepy little girl of tremendous power who is floating above her bed, so perhaps we can forgive her briefly not noticing two plus two equaled four. a couple days i expected it to take longer, too! the question mark was always intended to be pandora trolling sarah as a complete non-clue, but i figured it would take longer to get to it. i eventually reached the conclusion, however, that there is so much stuff going on in the overall story that, if i only let story stuff happen in the story comics, it would take absurdly long to get to anything. i'd done some canon stuff in egs:np before, and i decided to do more. there'll be more like it in the future, too, but there will also be non-canon stuff, and standalone joke stuff, etc. i feel with the number of characters and plot lines we've got going right now, being able to shoot out some canon in egs:np is a wonderful thing. granted, some people are clearly not as excited as i am, and i've received some metaphorical raised eyebrows, but i'm excited, at least. about 100 activists have staged ukraine's first gay pride march in the capital kiev, ignoring a court ban. "this can be considered a historic day," olena semenova, one of the organisers, said. police arrested 13 people for trying to break up the rally - in a country where homophobia is widespread and generally accepted. in neighbouring russia, more than 20 gay activists were detained by police at an unsanctioned rally in moscow. the campaigners tried to march on russia's parliament building, denouncing what they described as "homophobic" legislation recently approved by mps. the bill bans "gay propaganda" in an effort to protect children, but human rights campaigners say its real aim is to curb the rights of sexual minorities. image caption anti-gay campaigners denounced the march 'kiev is not sodom' in kiev, the gay-rights activists marched outside the city centre amid a heavy police presence. "this event will go down in the history of ukraine as one of the key developments in the fight for equal rights," ms semenova said. a number of protesters - including orthodox church members - gathered nearby to denounce the march. "ukraine is not america, kiev is not sodom," they chanted. the event was held despite an earlier court ruling banning such gatherings. city authorities had argued that a gay march would clash with the annual kiev day festivities and could lead to violence. the authorities cited 500 complaints from the public to justify their court petition. a gay-rights event planned for last year in kiev was called off at the last minute after a gathering of skinheads threatened participants. a recent amnesty international report said ukraine's gay community suffered widespread bias and abuse. bus stops are the gateways into the transit network in metro atlanta. yet, these bus stops don't convey the most basic information. through the adopt-a-stop program you can bring back bus stops into the visual environment of your neighborhood. you just need to choose a bus stop to adopt and attend one of our events. we will give you a weather resistant sign with routes and schedule information for your particular stop. how to participate sign up with the form below. think of any one bus stop that you want to adopt. it can be any stop that you frequently use or walk by, as long as it is a u-channel pole. please consult our event page and make sure that you can make it to one of the events. there, you will meet your fellow soldiers and learn how to put up the sign. if you can't make it to any event, don't pick a bus stop but sign up to our mailing list. we'll let you know about other opportunities to get a sign! a highly radioactive substance, emitting in some places radiation 100 times the permitted amount, has been discovered in switzerland, local media reported, saying the hazard was known about for 18 months. le matin dimanche and sonntags zeitung reported on sunday that federal, regional and local officials decided not to reveal the discovery of radium in an old dump in the town of bienne in case it scared the 50,000 residents. "120kg of radioactive waste was obtained after sorting. we measured doses of several hundred microsieverts at the source," daniel dauwalder, a spokesman for the swiss federal office for public health, told le matin dimanche. in certain places, measurements of 300 microsieverts per hour were taken, more than 100 times the permitted amount for an old dump, the newspapers reported. anyone exposed for three hours would absorb the equivalent of a year's permitted dose. the waste came from a paint used by the watch-making industry to illuminate the numbers on watch faces. the substance, which has been banned since 1963 due to its radioactive nature, was discovered when roadworks were started at the site. the ofsp judged the risk to public health "weak", although sonntags zeitung said that tests on the water table would begin next month. the president of the federal commission in charge of monitoring radiation, which was not informed of the incident, said the various authorities had made a "mistake". "this will all come back to bite us and it is much more difficult to stay credible and win back the public's trust," francois bochud told le matin dimanche. a chemical fire that started after an explosion at a cargo warehouse in brazil has been put out after two days. the fire in santos spread toxic gas over the country's biggest port and across four cities. the company owners said the containers were full of acid and a disinfectant which came into contact with rainwater, causing a reaction. reports say close to 200 people in three cities were taken to hospital with breathing difficulties. prosecutors are now investigating whether anyone is to blame for the fire, that more than 300 firefighters battled at its peak. the container terminal was operated by localfrio, a logistics company, in guaruja, a municipality on the eastern side of santos, in sao paulo state. a spokeswoman for the company, which exports chemicals used for refrigeration and general cargo, said the containers were filled with chloric acid and sodium dichloroisocyanurate - a cleaning and disinfectant agent. reports in guaruja said 85 containers on the site were damaged. local mayor maria antonieta de brito had asked people to stay out of the rain which could "contain chemical elements that can burn the skin". the 51ft container is similar to those used to ferment beer and is believed to have fallen from a ship. the container was found by a dog walker on poll na crann beach near griminish - known as stinky bay - west benbecula. stornoway coastguard said it resembled tanks used by the american brewer coors. the company said it was not aware of a missing container. no-one at the german firm ziemann, which makes the tanks, was available for comment. a number of people contacted the bbc news website with theories about the origins of the container. one reader thought the numbers "5580" written on the container could have meant it was used to hold chemicals in dtd 5580, a three-part paint aircraft scheme. another writer thought it could have been a rocket stage launched from south uist, from which meteorological rockets were fired in the 1960s and 70s. a recent finding suggests that fish oil supplements may protect the heart in a stressful situation, according to a news release. the study was conducted by jason carter, a researcher at michigan technological university. the study was conducted on 67 healthy participants who were given either nine grams of fish oil pills or nine grams of olive oil pills as placebo. these pills were given for a period of two months. before and after the test, the participants were screened for their heart rate, blood pressure and other related metrics. a mental arithmetic test was taken by the participants after completing the test period. the test involved adding and subtracting numbers in their head. during this addition and subtraction, their stress response was measured. the researchers noticed that those who consumed fish oil supplements for several weeks were less likely to be stressed while participating in the test when compared to those who were on placebo. "these results show that fish oil could have a protective effect on cardiovascular function during mental stress, a finding that adds a piece to the puzzle on why taking fish oil helps the heart stay healthy," said carter, chair of kinesiology and integrative physiology at michigan tech. this data supports the evidence that fish oil, especially omega 3 fatty acid, may have a positive health benefit on neural cardiovascular control in humans. fish oil is beneficial for cardiovascular health. the researchers suggest that those who don't take fish oil supplementation should consider having natural food that is rich in omega-3 fatty acids. the study is published in the american journal of physiology: regulatory, integrative, and comparative physiology. : now the subject of a major netflix movie colm mcnamee birlinn , nov 1, 2012 - history - 304 pages 0 reviews commemorating the seven hundredth anniversary of the enthronement of robert i of scotland, this book is intended as an everyman's guide to scotland's famous hero king. the life of bruce is one of the greatest comeback stories in history. heir and magnate, shrewd politician, briefly 'king of summer' and then a desperate fugitive who nevertheless returned from exile to recover the kingdom he claimed, bruce became a gifted military leader and a wise statesman, a leader with vision and energy. colm mcnamee combines the most up to date scholarship on this crucial figure in the history of the british isles with lucid explanation of the medieval context, so that readers of all backgrounds can appreciate bruce's enormous contribution to the historical impact not just on scotland, but on england and ireland too. it is designed to encourage popular reassessment of bruce as politician, warrior, monarch and saviour of scottish identity from extinction at the hands of the edwardian superstate. peeling back the layers of misconception and propaganda, the author paints an accurate, sympathetic but balanced portrait of a much beloved national hero who has fallen out of fashion of late for no good reason. cian bolger's last-gasp goal gave fleetwood victory at league one's bottom club coventry. the defender powered home a bullet header from a corner with just a minute of normal time left to seal a victory which lifts fleetwood up to fourth in the table. struggling coventry could have few complaints as they were outplayed for most of the game. ashley hunter could well have put the visitors in front in only the seventh minute when he pulled a fine save out of goalkeeper lee burge with a low, angled shot. bobby grant also saw a first-half effort deflected just wide as it seemed to be heading goalwards, while coventry's best chance of the opening 45 minutes came when andy rose's mishit cross threatened to creep in under the crossbar. coventry had the best chance of the game in the 50th minute when callum reilly's header from a ryan haynes cross hit the post with keeper alex cairns beaten. fleetwood boss uwe rosler rang the changes as a win looked to be slipping from their grasp - but bolger helped keep up their promotion push at the death. report supplied by the press association. there is a lot of hand-wringing when it comes to home ownership in canada. the purchase of a home, especially a single family house, is often seen as the pinnacle of a path to happiness many canadians have bought into. but nathan lauster says not only are single family homes overrated, they're also harmful to the health of a city. they tend to be quite isolating for people; they tend to really valorize private space at the cost of real public space where people can get out and meet other people who are different than themselves. - nathan lauster, "the death and life of the single family house" as a result, the ubc sociology professor, who also calls vancouver home, says single family housing is a "sap" on urban vitality. ironically, lauster also sees his city as one that can lead the way when it comes to how cities approach planning alternatives to single family housing. a six-member cbi team has visited burj jwahar singh wala and bargari villages in connection with the investigation of sacrilege incident. ssp faridkot sukhminder singh mann on saturday said the cbi team arrived yesterday and will be here for two more days. cbi sleuths recorded the statement of granthis of burj jwahar singh wala gurdwara and also of gurdwara bargari. ssp said the police was also coordinating with the cbi team and handed over the relevant documents to them. punjab government on november 1 had handed over the probe to cbi into the bargari village sacrilege incident in faridkot. the three cases were registered at the bajakhana police station in faridkot district. these related to the theft of guru granth sahib at burj jawahar singh wala village in june, the putting up of posters in bargari and burj jawahar singh wala villages in september inciting sikhs to protest against the theft of the holy book and the sacrilege of guru granth sahib with torn pages of the holy book being found at bargari in october. police have arrested a maine man they allege tried to steal lawn chairs from a woman's yard, and then swung a machete when the woman wielded a garden hoe to try to stop him. the morning sentinel reports that dwight nathan hart, of bingham, was charged with criminal threatening with a dangerous weapon and criminal trespassing in connection with the confrontation sunday evening. police say the 64-year-old hart pulled his pickup truck into a yard in the town of moscow and started taking lawn chairs. the woman, holding a garden hoe, told him to stop. police say hart grabbed a machete and started swinging, leaving a few nicks in the hoe's handle. hart is in jail on bail and it's not clear if he has a lawyer. according to tmz, someone is looking to make money from the personal struggles of former six division world champion oscar de la hoya. an unknown party is trying to sell photos which show the former champion allegedly using cocaine during a party in las vegas. this bit of news comes right on the heels of last week's announcement, by de la hoya, that he was entering rehab for substance abuse. tmz was told the photos were shot at a party in a vegas hotel room a few weeks before last week's announcement by de la hoya. the seller showed the photos to tmz. and the outlet states that in the photos de la hoya was using a rolled up bill to do lines of a white substance off a plate on a table. the seller told tmz the substance was cocaine. de la hoya is fully aware of these photos, according to tmz. in 2007, a new york city stripper leaked pictures of de la hoya wearing women's lingerie. he appeared to be very intoxicated in those photos. while he initially denied they were real, he came clean on the photos in 2011 during a televised interview on univision. israel said thursday it had suspended entry permits for 83,000 palestinians during the holy muslim month of ramadan following a shooting in tel aviv that killed four people. "all permits for ramadan, especially permits for family visits from judea and samaria to israel, are frozen," said a statement from cogat, the unit which manages civilian affairs in the occupied west bank. it said that 83,000 palestinians would be affected, adding that hundreds of residents of the gaza strip who had received permits to visit relatives and holy sites during ramadan would also have access frozen. cogat announced the measures after two palestinians opened fire at a popular tel aviv nightspot near israel's military headquarters late wednesday, killing four people in one of the worst attacks in a months-long wave of violence. it said it had frozen permits for 204 relatives of one of the alleged attackers. israel had announced last week it was relaxing restrictions on the movement of palestinians, mainly from the west bank, but also those living in gaza, during ramadan. it had planned to allowed up to 500 people from gaza to attend friday prayers at the israeli-controlled al-aqsa mosque compound in east jerusalem over the holy month, which began on monday. violence since october has killed at least 207 palestinians, 28 israelis, two americans, an eritrean and a sudanese. most of the palestinians killed were carrying out knife, gun or car-ramming attacks, according to israeli authorities. others were killed in clashes or by israeli air strikes in the gaza strip. melbourne's ruck depth could be tested further after jake spencer was ruled out for the second half of the demons' anzac day eve clash with richmond at the mcg. already without all australian big man max gawn for an extended period due to a hamstring injury, spencer hurt the ac joint in his right shoulder in the first quarter and his right knee in the second term. spencer did not return to the bench after half-time along with rookie forward tim smith, who was taken to hospital with suspected broken ribs, leaving the demons down to two fit players on the interchange. the ruckman was spotted on the bench with his right arm in a sling, suggesting the injury could sideline him for multiple weeks. smith copped a knee to the back from tiger defender alex rance midway through the second quarter and there are concerns he may have a collapsed lung. germany has threatened to stop contributing development aid to countries that refuse to take back rejected asylum seekers. the move comes in response to failings which kept the suspected berlin christmas market attacker from being deported to tunisia. "those who do not cooperate sufficiently cannot hope to benefit from our development aid," vice chancellor sigmar gabriel told german weekly der spiegel in an interview published at the weekend. german interior minister thomas de maiziere told ard public television on sunday that he "fully supports this idea". the warning was aimed in particular at tunisia - the home nation of anis amri, who was suspected of ploughing a lorry into a berlin christmas market last month in an attack that killed 12 people - and at north african nations in general. germany rejected amri's asylum application last june, but tunis initially denied he was a tunisian citizen, blocking him from being sent home. a new tunisian travel document for the 24-year-old only arrived two days after the slaughter in berlin. several thousand citizens of north african nations, including those with almost no chance of obtaining asylum in germany, are similarly lacking papers to return home. the christmas market attack has pushed the government of chancellor angela merkel to consider how to improve the system. authorities are considering more routinely placing failed asylum seekers viewed as dangerous islamists in detention ahead of their deportation. "i will make very concrete proposals to expand the possibility of placing in detention people classified as dangerous before their expulsion," justice minister heiko maas said on sunday, adding this would apply to failed asylum seekers whose countries were delaying taking them back. meanwhile, hundreds have protested in tunisia this weekend against extremist tunisian nationals who have travelled to fight in countries including syria, iraq, and libya, from returning home. the anti-euro campaign is only starting in greece. the bailout implementation will be very painful, and any economic recovery has been postponed, long into 2016 even in the best case. the election-related uncertainty will be another blow for the economy, so the economy is likely to suffer a huge hit during the second half of this year. "such performance could easily increase the anti-bailout sentiment, and at the same time make it harder for the next government to continue to implement the bailout. as this time the alternative is openly admitted - exiting the euro - people will have a better picture of the choice involved. the recent history of the willingness of greece to implement its programmes heavily suggests it will not meet the new conditions either, at which time the grexit issue will return", says nordea bank. other euro-area countries can always offer yet more concessions on the programme terms, but if the greek people at some point are sufficiently fed up to support the anti-bailout, anti-euro camp, grexit cannot be avoided. the badges include engineering: think like an engineer, which they can earn by participating in design challenges, and robotics, which allow them to design their own robots. they can also score a mechanical engineering badge through such activities as building and testing roller coasters and an outdoor stem: think like a citizen scientist badge by undertaking a citizen science project. the computer science: think like a programmer badge allows girls to understand how programmers solve problems. while girls often show an early interest in stem fields, they often decline to pursue those paths for myriad reasons, including a lack of encouragement and support. last year, netflix and the girl scouts teamed up to encourage young girls to seriously consider stem fields as a career option. in june, the organization introduced cybersecurity badges, which will make their debut in the fall of next year. this is just the latest step in the girl scouts ensuring that their young members have exposure to many different fields, not just the ones that are considered traditional paths for young women. water's surface needs to be pressed at the right speed for an adequate amount of time, up to a certain depth, in order to achieve jumping. the water strider is capable of doing all these things flawlessly. based on the team's observations, striders can do all those thing perfectly thanks to the slightly curved tips of their legs. after figuring out what morphology and movements to copy, the group managed to build a robotic insect that uses a lightweight catapult mechanism. it can exert force equivalent to 16 times its body weight without breaking the water's surface and perform real strider-like jumps. to note, a separate team developed a robot based on the same insect years ago, but it was much larger than its real-life counterpart. this team's creation is comparable in size to actual striders, as you can see in the video below. small robots like these could eventually be used for search operations, among other purposes. and since this particular one was created by manufacturing folded composite structures that self-assemble, it will be easy to make in large batches. just when you think the copa america centenario organisers would have learnt from their embarrassing gaffe a day earlier, they made a mess of chile's national anthem before their 2-1 group d loss to argentina. the first mishap took place at the university of phoenix stadium in glendale, when the organisers wrongfully played out the chile national anthem instead of uruguay's prior to the 3-1 loss to mexico. but it wouldn't be the last of such blunders, as a second happened at the levi's stadium in santa clara, california, when pitbull's single "mr. worldwide" interrupted the conclusion of chile's anthem. while the embarrassment was clear for all to see, credit has to be given to the chilean team and their fans for ignoring the interjection and continuing to belt out their anthem with pride. baltimore ravens quarterback joe flacco has more playoff wins than 10 teams in the nfl right now. flacco has 10 playoff wins right now and 10 teams have less than that all-time their franchise history. outside of the carolina panthers, jacksonville jaguars and the houston texans, the other eight teams have been around in the league for at least 40 years. some of you may be asking why i'm talking about this when the ravens just finished their season with a 5-11 record. well, i think this statistic is funny that's why. check out this list: that's a bad list to be on especially if you are not the panthers, jaguars or the texans. the panthers entered the nfl in the mid 1990's and the texans arrived in the early 2000's so they have somewhat of an excuse. but the rest of the teams on this list don't. if you think your school is overly cautious when it makes you ditch your phone before a big test, you haven't seen anything yet. buzzfeed news has learned that multiple universities have issued blanket bans on all watches during exams in case students are wearing smartwatches they could use to cheat. according to london's city university, it "wouldn't be practical" to have proctors checking every watch to make sure it's analog -- it's easier to make you write with bare arms. the move is unfortunate if you're used to glancing at your watch to gauge your progress, but it does make sense given how easy it is to get memos, text messages and other unfair advantages on your wrist. whether or not you think smartwatch cheating represents a major problem, it's probably a good idea to leave that pebble or zenwatch at home during your mid-terms. after the success of comedy blockbuster jawani phir nahi ani, humayun saeed is wasting no time in lining up his next box office hits. while the jpna sequel is on the cards, saeed is first producing another film that centres around a conflict between two people in love. sounds pretty standard for a romance drama to us! but with jpna director nadeem baig at the helm and pyare afzal writer khalil-ur-rehman penning the script, the film has two bankable artists to its benefit. add to this the star power of humayun saeed, who stars as the hero, and veteran actors like samina peerzada and saba hameed, and we've got ourselves a film to be excited about! the search for a female lead is on, nadeem baig told images. the untitled film is being partly shot in romania - and if bachaana's success is anything to go by, we know that beautiful foreign locales are a great crowd-pleaser! the rest of the film will be shot in punjab. the director also added the film is scheduled for a release this year. coles has thrown down the gauntlet to woolworths' dan murphy's, launching a new liquor store format that promises to take the guesswork out of buying cheap booze while beating advertised prices at rival chains. coles opened the first trial store under the no-nonsense liquormarket banner in the melbourne suburb of ringwood last week, repainting and rebadging a former first choice store. the new format, which is more akin to a kmart or bunnings than coles' more upmarket vintage cellars or woolworths' dan murphy's, was developed after extensive research into what customers want from a liquor retailer. coles is testing shopper appetite for its new liquor brand liquor market in ringwood. the range has been simplified and products such as beer and spirits are sorted by variety, style or "flavour maps" rather than by brand, encouraging customers to explore new brands. products are tested and rated by coles' liquor team and characteristics displayed on shelf "talkers", making it easier for customers to choose. orensteinat the same time it's also the time when they're the most flexible about gender ideas and roles. and so they're laying down tracks that are going to last for their whole lives. and any time -- kids grow up and will choose, and that's okay, to play with their own sex most of the time, but any time they can play with the other sex, it exposes them to other ways of thinking, other ways of acting, other ways of being. and there is research that shows that kids who have friends of the other sex when they're little, and then they're in elementary school, have healthier dating relationships when they're teenagers. so there is an aspect of this that is about girls and boys playing together. and if girls are in their all pink world and have their pink scrabble set that says f-a-s-h-i-o-n on the cover, which exists and is a seven-letter word, and have their pink magic 8 ball, you know, i don't know if they can cross those boundaries. the stage program is only a fraction of tedmed - the full experience involves many more activities and interactive installations that catalyze discussion and stimulate new relationships. to kickstart each day, we begin each morning with "tedmed health" to get the blood pumping with activities like hiking, running, yoga and meditation to help get you ready for the day ahead. after fueling up with a nutritious breakfast, the day is spent alternating between inspiring and thought-provoking talks from our speakers, and meals and interaction with fellow delegates, who comprise a truly multi-disciplinary group of change-makers passionate about creating a healthier world. during breaks between sessions, the hive offers innovative hands-on activities, beautiful art exhibits, and of course meet-ups with all of our speakers and with the hive innovators. on both wednesday and thursday evening, take the chance to kick back, relax and share new ideas over food, drinks and performances at our opening reception and evening celebration. november 28, 2011 idaho state representative phil hart became concerned about the federal government's illegal introduction of canadian gray wolves in idaho because they pose a public danger. the federal government and idaho agreed to allow a population of 100 wolves into the state, but the canadian wolf population far exceeds that number now, and is estimated to be 1000 to 2000 wolves that can weigh as much as 140 to 180 pounds. the federal government mismanaged the wolf program under the endangered species act. the wolves are now a very serious threat to humans and livestock because they carry disease and tapeworms. tapeworms from wolf feces can be fatal to humans; it is especially alarming that tapeworms can remain dormant for 20 years. phil hart, working with dane vonbriechenruardt, director of the us bill of rights foundation and a team of legislators including judy boyle, devised a creative plan to protect the people of idaho: legislation was written to declare a state of emergency to place the power with the state, removing it from federal agencies. declaring a state of emergency can be used as a model for other issues that threaten life and property, and to preserve the 10th amendment and states' rights. just before the state of emergency bill was to be signed into law, congress de-listed the canadian gray wolves, which transferred control from the federal government to the state. it appears that the feds may have wanted to avoid a confrontation over the 10th amendment. federal court jurisdiction is limited to federal statutes, so the feds would have had no authority if a state of emergency was declared under state police power. apple has put more weight behind its electric car efforts and has set a target shipment date of 2019, the wall street journal reported monday, citing sources. the tech giant has called the car initiative, named "titan" within the company, a "committed project" and has met with california officials in determining the feasibility of an apple car, according to the report. the outlet reports the employees spearheading the 600-person project have been given permission to triple the number of people working on it. it marks the latest in a string of reports suggesting apple could look to compete in the automotive industry. the journal said the 2019 target date is far from concrete, as the company would still need to refine features and clear regulatory and production barriers. zambia came back from two goals down to secure a thrilling 4-2 victory over iran on wednesday, taking a giant step towards the knockout stages of the 2017 fifa under-20 world cup in gabon. a double from reza shekari had the iranians 2-0 up almost 10 minutes into the second half, but zambia then shifted up a gear and netted four times in 17 minutes to stun their opponents. fashion sakala, enock mwepu, emmanuel banda, and patson daka netted the goals as young chipolopolo made it two wins from two in the group stage, following their opening 2-0 victory over portugal. they are just about certain of a place in the second round as the top two sides in each pool, as well as the four best third-place finishers, advance to the knockout stage. iran had won their opener 1-0 over costa rica and all is not lost for them as they face a final clash with portugal on saturday. zambia will be confident of seeing off the costa ricans on the same day. it did not look good for the africans early on though, when shekari missed an open goal with nobody but the keeper to beat, and then did convert a chance six minutes in, after a horrendous mistake from zambia keeper mangani manda. with time to make his clearance, the keeper passed the ball straight to shekari, who ran at goal and supplied the finish. the iranian forward made it 2-0 early in the second half when his side won a penalty and he easily converted from the spot. but from then on in it was all zambia as sakala collected a pass from namesake and captain solomon sakala and blasted the ball home on 54 minutes. five minutes later it was 2-2 when mwepu was given too much time and space, and he supplied a fantastic shot to score. the turnaround was complete on 65 minutes when banda found the back of the net, before striker daka, on as a substitute, grabbed a fourth with 71 minutes on the clock. last weekend, new episodes were released through the new infrastructure to test the system's ability to serve video to large portions of the crunchyroll audience. the encodes that some users experienced were not up to the standards of our previous system, nor up to the standards we demand from ourselves. while we identified issues with the encodes, solutions for a broad rollout require us to first move completely to the new infrastructure. going forward, we have updated the video experience for simulcasts and new episodes within the new infrastructure. as the transition to this new infrastructure is complete, we will re-encode all of our catalog with this higher quality. please know that it will never be crunchyroll's intention to lessen the viewing experience. in cases like this we're grateful users reached out to us and provided feedback about the issue. we appreciate the patience with our efforts and will continue working to bring an improved viewing experience across crunchyroll. syrian protestors celebrated the accomplishments made by libyan rebels on sunday, heartened by the advances made by opposition forces in the libyan capital, tripoli. but, while they hope that damascus will succumb to their push against the regime of president bashar assad, syrian activists admit that differences between libya and syria call for different tactics in their rebellion. "achievements made by the rebels in libya have only made us even more intent on removing bashar," said one activist and member of the popular anti-regime local coordination committee in latakia, who goes by the honorific abu yousef. arab countries which have been distant for decades have now been joined by a popular uprising that has engulfed the region. in the minds of protestors in syria, the fate of their own movement is very much influenced by events unfolding a continent away. "i was never as involved and invested in libyan politics as much as i am today. that is because our fight is one fight. we are unified in our resistance to dictators. we are unified by the greater arab awakening," said lina, a 26-year old resident of damascus. in hama, the scene of some the syrian uprising's bloodiest days, residents and activists perceive the success of libya's rebels to be a success of the so-called arab spring as a whole. aston villa will consider sean dyche when they step up their search for a new boss. the soon-to-be relegated club are looking at both nigel pearson and david moyes to replace remi garde but dyche will also be tracked. garde is expected to leave as soon as villa can agree an exit package and then a thorough search for a suitable replacement will commence. villa are looking for a new boss with experience in the english game and a history in the championship is also thought to appeal. while pearson and moyes are both out of work, dyche is doing a good job at burnley and has his side top-of-the-table and closing in on an immediate return to the premier league. the lure of a move to a club of villa's size could appeal to the 44-year-old especially with the current re-structure at the club almost complete. brexit negotiations between the uk and officials representing the european union are focusing on ireland today. the talks are due to continue until thursday, when eu chief negotiator michel barnier and british brexit secretary david davis will hold a press conference. ireland has held detailed talks with the eu about the impact of brexit on the good friday agreement and the common travel area with britain. however, the uk has not yet given a detailed assessment to the eu on either topic. today, civil servants from britain will brief an eu delegation on its views. the meeting will be held behind closed doors. a key issue is whether the uk's assessment of the challenges posed differs from the views already expressed by the irish government. meanwhile, british prime minister theresa may has told members of her conservative party to stop infighting or risk letting labour leader jeremy corbyn into power, according to sky news. recent weeks have seen tory politicians publicly bicker over brexit and state spending as they manoeuvre ahead of a possible leadership heave. mrs may is expected to warn ministers at a meeting later today that cabinet discussions should not be leaked and public squabbling must end. if you've been longing to learn shuttle tatting, or looking for a new craft that's fun, inexpensive and portable, this is the class for you. marilee's warm and expert instruction will guide you through the tricky parts and send you on your way to creating lacy jewelry and tatted embellishments for quilts, paper crafts and more. you'll learn the basic lark's head knot and double stitch and how to create lace patterns with chains, rings and picots. marilee shares pattern-reading skills and discusses where to find vintage patterns. she also helps you avoid or fix common mistakes. as a bonus, you'll learn a few more techniques: reverses, joins and beadwork, node stitch and floating and split rings. use the skills you've learned to make little flowers and butterflies, floret earrings, a classic-edge bracelet, the beaded rhapsody necklace and parfait snowflakes! the golimog are a genus of small, highly derived, troglobite rodents native to the upper subterranean rivers and pools of the cave systems found just beneath the surface of the wumbian basin. descended from open-water, sighted ancestors, these unusual squirrel-sized foons are the sole group to retain their forelimbs - a single very long finger on either side of their chest, long atrophied in other modern species, is used to feel around the rocky riverbed in the eternal darkness that is their home. the nose of the animal too has evolved to assist in 'seeing' in a world without light, and is rich with sensitive finger-like protrusions used to feel for prey, typically small invertebrates. having fallen from the open rivers above down into these caverns long ago, golimog have wholly lost their vision, their eyes covered by skin - and navigate by touch and smell alone. like their free-swimming kin which roam wumbian rivers and the southern oceans alike, they are considered to be entirely aquatic, breeding and rearing their well-formed young directly in the water and never coming upon land. the latest news from google on the nexus one is that they will be winding down the nexus one forum, which will become read-only come november 1st. the news was brought to our attention by xda forum member garfnodie early this evening. the actual notice posted by google can be found on their android help page where the exact words are: the nexus one forum will be archived and become read-only on november 1st. please see the nexus one terms of sale for details regarding support. if you have questions about using applications on your nexus one post them to the google mobile forum. for the nexus one owners out there including developers, what are your thoughts? post your comment below or join in the discussion thread. at least 10 people have died in north lebanon in two days of gun battles between supporters and opponents of syrian president bashar al-assad. clashes in the port city of tripoli also left 49 people wounded including 11 soldiers, a security source said. tripoli, with a small alawite community surrounded by a sunni majority, is seen as one of lebanon's most volatile sectarian fault-lines. president assad is an alawite and is fighting a sunni-led revolt. correspondents say tensions have been high since last week, when residents of the alawite district of jabal muhsin began flying syrian flags in support of president assad. in response, residents of neighbouring bab al-tabbana raised the flag favoured by syrian rebels. clashes broke out on saturday, leaving at least six dead, and continued into the night. on sunday, at least four people were hit by sniper fire, including an off-duty soldier and two people in a lorry. the lebanese army remained deployed in the area on sunday and a military source said four people had been arrested. clashes intensified on sunday night and the government news agency said many of the city's schools would be closed on monday. shia islamist militant group hezbollah, which has fought on the side of pro-assad forces in syria, denied reports that it had sent fighters and military experts to jabal muhsin. on-off fighting between the two districts has claimed scores of lives over the past two years. date written: 2009 abstract one of the president's main leadership tools for influencing the direction of american legal policy is public rhetoric. numerous studies have examined the president's use of the "bully pulpit" to lead policy by influencing congress or public opinion, or by changing the behavior of public agencies. we argue that the president can use rhetoric to change the behavior of public agencies and that this can have important social consequences. we focus on the disproportionate impact of presidential rhetoric on different "target populations" in the context of the war on drugs. specifically, we observe that presidential rhetoric had a greater impact on state arrest rates for african americans than for whites, even when controlling for alternative explanations. these findings suggest that presidential rhetoric is filtered through social constructions of public policy problems when public officials act upon them. the perception of young australians as apathetic, lazy, and unlikely to engage in political discourse is inaccurate, mad and dangerous according to the authors of a new study on australian democracy. the study, undertaken by the university of canberra's institute for governance and policy analysis in conjunction with the museum of australian democracy, compared how different generations perceived our political system and what they would change about it. max halupka with museum director daryl karp at the power of 1 exhibition at the museum of australian democracy at old parliament house. credit: rohan thomson max halupka, a research fellow at the institute for governance and policy analysis, said the survey indicated a "changing of the guard" with young people feeling disenfranchised with politicians but still supporting democratic values. "a lot of people see political party membership and engagement as the hallmarks of democracy but what our study did was ask a broader repertoire of questions to see what other ways people engage in politics," he said. if you are a vape shop or e-cigarette brand and would like to sponsor a vaping giveaway, please get in touch with us through our contact form. take a look below at some of the past giveaways we have done with brands and shops to get an idea as to what sort of brand exposure you can get from sponsoring such a giveaway! each giveaway will have multiple entry methods and the more methods you use, the more chances you will have of winning! please use an email address you check often, as the winners will receive an email to these addresses if they win. make sure to use the viral share entry method as this is the best way to gain main additional entries to help your quest for free vape pens, vape juice, vape mods and vape tanks! triad princess after growing up in the shadow of her mafia-affiliated father, angie defies his wishes and takes a gig as an undercover bodyguard for a famous actress. pacific rim as monsters emerge from the sea to attack earth, humanity fights back using giant robot warriors in this anime adaptation of the blockbuster film. cricket fever: mumbai indians follow indian premier league champions mumbai indians through the 2018 season in this series featuring insider insights and intense cricket action. chambers consumed by the mystery surrounding the donor heart that saved her life, a young patient starts taking on sinister characteristics of the deceased. bloodride a norwegian anthology series that blends horror with dark scandinavian humor, setting each distinct story in its own realistic yet weird universe. spectros a teenage boy and his friends get caught in a clash between brazilian witchcraft and japanese shinto spirits in their neighborhood. love alarm a software developer creates an app that alerts users if anyone nearby harbors romantic feelings for them. adapted from the popular web cartoon. nowhere man a strange encounter causes a man awaiting execution to experience alternate timelines, leading to his escape from prison to protect his family. two members of the anti-kremlin punk band pussy riot have been sent to remote prison camps to serve their sentences, the group has said. maria alyokhina, 24, will serve the rest of her two-year term at a women's prison camp in perm, a siberian region notorious for hosting some of the soviet union's harshest camps. nadezhda tolokonnikova, 22, has been sent to mordovia, a region that also hosts a high number of prisons. "these are the harshest camps of all the possible choices," the band said via its twitter account on monday. alyokhina and tolokonnikova were convicted of hooliganism motivated by religious hatred for performing an anti-putin "punk anthem" in a moscow cathedral in february. they argued that their conviction was part of a growing crackdown on free speech and political activism in russia. they are expected to serve the rest of their sentences, which end in march 2014, in the camps, where conditions are reportedly dire. a third member, yekaterina samutsevich, was released earlier this month after being given a suspended sentence. pussy riot's supporters have argued that her release was designed to give the appearance of mercy from the authorities. confusion reigned on monday as relatives and lawyers tried to assess exactly where the women were sent. both perm and mordovia host several prison camps, some of which comprised the soviet-era gulag system. prison authorities declined to comment on the women's whereabouts. alyokhina and tolokonnikova had petitioned to serve their sentences in moscow, arguing that they wanted to be close to their children. alyokhina has a five-year-old son named filipp, while tolokonnikova has a four-year-old daughter named gera. a landmark high court ruling will decide the future direction of the independent commission against corruption and the validity of a raft of findings against high-profile targets of its investigations. the court will deliver its decision on wednesday in the legal battle between the icac and crown prosecutor margaret cunneen, sc, over a proposed inquiry into allegations she perverted the course of justice. the icac is in the high court seeking a ruling which allows it to investigate margaret cunneen. inquiries that may be affected by the ruling include the investigation into obeid-linked company australian water holdings, in which findings are yet to be delivered, and the inquiry into a coal tenement created "smack bang on top" of the obeid family's farm. at the heart of the high court battle is the meaning of "corrupt conduct" as defined in the icac act. the act contains multiple definitions of corruption but only one, involving the conduct of private citizens, is being examined. hundreds of penguins have been washed up dead on the beaches of brazil. scientists are still investigating what could have caused the death of around 500 animals found on the shores of sao paulo state. they say autopsies carried out on some of the carcasses suggest they could have starved to death, as their stomachs were completely empty. they are now trying to establish if strong currents and colder temperatures may be to blame. thiago do nascimento of the peruibe aquarium says the cooler than usual temperatures off the coast could have driven away the fish and squid the penguins feed on. but he did not rule out that overfishing could have decimated the penguins' food sources. mr nascimento said between 100 and 150 penguins showed up on the beaches every year, but that they were normally alive, with only around 10 washed up dead in an average year. "what worries us this year, is the absurdly high number of penguins that have appeared dead in a short period of time," he told the associated press news agency. digital restrictions management is the practice of imposing technological restrictions that control what users can do with digital media. when a program is designed to prevent you from copying or sharing a song, reading an ebook on another device, or playing a single-player game without an internet connection, you are being restricted by drm. in other words, drm creates a damaged good; it prevents you from doing what would be possible without it. this concentrates control over production and distribution of media, giving drm peddlers the power to carry out massive digital book burnings and conduct large scale surveillance over people's media viewing habits. if we want to avoid a future in which our devices serve as an apparatus to monitor and control our interaction with digital media, we must fight to retain control of our media and software. environment canada is warning up to 15 centimetres of snow could fall by wednesday at higher elevations in the mountains west of calgary. a system moving through the northwestern united states is to blame for the wintery weather, which is expected to start as rainfall on tuesday evening and turn to snow by wednesday morning. between 10 and 15 centimetres could fall throughout the day. the snowfall warning extends from the kananaskis and canmore areas, north to the nordegg area, while a rainfall warning is in effect for fort macleod and macgrath and a weather warning is in effect for pincher creek and waterton lakes. the forecast for the may long weekend in calgary calls for highs of 16 c to 18 c with cloudy periods and a chance of rain. the forecast is similar for kananaskis and canmore over the long weekend, with highs between 16 c and 18 c expected, and overnight lows of around 4 c. julia in action teaches you how to use the julia language to tackle technical programming tasks as well as data processing, analysis, and visualization challenges. you'll begin by setting up your development environment and then you'll dive into the fundamentals: data types, strings, collections, matrices, and control flow. using real-world examples, you'll learn how to create and use functions and methods along with how and when to use explicit types. you'll master reading and writing files and data, connecting to external data sources, and importing and cleaning real world data. this book also teaches you about parallel programming to help you split complex problems into distributable chunks for faster processing. by the end of this book, you'll be ready to use julia to solve your scientific programming tasks. business insider so much of the way we watch and enjoy sports is determined by people who have never participated in a professional athletic event in their lives. casting a wide net, we searched the sports world for the 50 most influential people who operate behind the scenes. this includes presidents, owners, managers, coaches, agents, doctors, and reporters. these are the coaches who change the way the games are played, the commentators who shape the national conversation about sports, the agents who decide which stars play where, the owners who build juggernauts from scratch, and executives who alter the trajectories of their leagues over a huge period of time. in short, these are the behind-the-scenes people who are responsible for what we watch when we watch sports. go to our most influential people behind the scenes in sports homepage to learn more about the people on the list. this list was compiled by emmett knowlton, tony manfred, cork gaines, and leah goldman. we are sorry, but the file or page you requested could not be found. it may have been removed, had its name changed, or is temporarily unavailable. if you are using bookmarks or favorites please navigate to the correct page using any of the methods below and update them. if you typed the page address in the address bar, please ensure that it is spelled correctly. start from the fish and game department homepage and navigate through links to the information you would like to view. start from the fish and game department homepage and navigate through links to the information you would like to view. check the sitemap to see if your link is listed. click your browser's back button and select another link. at the top of this page is a search box. enter a word or phrase to search for the information in which you are interested. if you still cannot find the document or page for which you are looking, please contact us. communication between a game and an audio engine is often a one-way street. the game passes information to the audio engine whereby audio is played back. with no information going the other way around, the game resembles a dancer unable to hear and respond to the sound playing. being a temporal medium, sound often plays a key role in articulating temporal qualities such as pace, suspense and release. in order to retain continuity in such temporal experiences, and transition seamlessly from one temporal quality to another, the game needs to listen and adapt to the sound playing. using playdead's inside as an example, various approaches to feedback loops between game and audio that have resulted in a refined temporal flow of the gameplay experience will be demonstrated. examples include audio-driven gameplay, situations in which sound conducts in-game actions, and seamlessly incorporating death-respawn situations in the overall sound structure. albania - ranked 70th in the world - produced a major surprise as portugal's euro 2016 group i qualifying campaign got off to a terrible start in aveiro. a volley from bekim balaj proved enough to sink the 2012 semi-finalists. portugal were without cristiano ronaldo but still fielded a strong side that included manchester united's on-loan sporting lisbon winger nani. portugal's last four results 7 sept: home v albania euro 2016 qualifier 0-1 lost 26 june: v ghana world cup 2-1 won 22 june: v usa world cup 2-2 draw 16 june: v germany world cup 0-4 lost elsewhere, robert lewandowski hit four goals as newcomers gibraltar lost 7-0 to poland in group d. there was to be no fairytale for the minnows in a tough group which also includes world champions germany, the republic of ireland, scotland and georgia. kamil grosicki also scored two for the poles, while lukasz szukala joined them in finding the net. denmark had to come from behind to beat armenia, thomas kahlenberg settling the group i encounter in copenhagen. the faroe islands, ranked 183 in the world, took the lead against finland before losing 3-1 in group f, while romania won 1-0 away to greece in the same group. a subpoena has been issued demanding documents from donald trump's former national security adviser relating to russia's alleged interference in the us election. michael flynn was subpoenaed by the senate intelligence committee as part of its investigation into links between russia and mr trump's campaign team. the committee's chairman richard burr and vice chairman mark warner said they had first asked for the documents on 28 april but flynn's lawyer had not produced them. senator warner told reuters that some documents had been received from people but, as other people were not complying, the "next steps" were going to be taken. flynn was fired by president trump in february after less than a month in the job. the white house said he had misled top officials, including vice president mike pence, regarding his links with russia's ambassador in washington. image: ms yates told senators her department believed general flynn was compromised on monday, former acting us attorney general sally yates told a hearing that she had warned the white house about flynn's possible vulnerability to blackmail from the russians and that he could be compromised. both russia and mr trump's administration deny any collusion aimed at influencing november's election result. the retired army lieutenant general is also being investigated by other congressional committees and by the pentagon's inspector general regarding his contacts and earnings from organisations linked to the russian and turkish governments. botswana president ian khama has had stitches in his face after being scratched by a cheetah, officials say. the animal was reportedly being fed in its enclosure at an army barracks when it jumped up and scratched mr khama, who was standing nearby. the incident was "a freak accident, but not an attack", government spokesman jeff ramsay told local media. mr khama's injuries were minor and there were "no real security implications", the official added. the incident is said to have happened very fast, catching the president and his bodyguard by surprise. "he was scratched by a cheetah but not really attacked per se," said mr ramsay. mr khama was seen sporting a plaster at a meeting following the attack. cheetahs, the world's fastest land mammals, are listed as an endangered species. around 12,400 are thought to remain in the wild in african countries, including botswana. uber has a new feature that could save customers some precious, precious dollars. techcrunch has discovered that the company is testing out what it calls "smart routes" for uberpool, wherein cars pick up passengers along a specific corridor instead of going to their homes. if you look at the map below the fold, you'll see a green line going through a road -- a customer who chooses the option will have to hoof it from their homes to a pick-up point along that route. think of those points as bus stops of sorts. in exchange, uber will give them a discount worth at least a dollar. the company's been testing a similar feature called "suggested pickup points" for a while now, but that one still has cars meet customers close to their homes. firefox 51, released today, and chrome 56, currently due for release next week , have started describing some http connections as insecure as they continue the industry-wide push to promote the use of encrypted https. update: as luck would have it, chrome 56 was released while i was writing, and is out now. rollouts are staggered, so systems should see the update over the next few days. the non-secure labelling will occur on pages delivered over http that include forms. specifically, pages that include password fields, and in chrome, credit card fields, will put warnings in the address bar to explicitly indicate that the connection is not secure. one somewhat common older development practice was to place the password field on a page delivered by http, with the form submitted to a location protected by https. this offers little security in practice, however. pages delivered by http can be readily modified by eavesdroppers, meaning that an attacker could simply choose to submit the password data to a destination of their choosing, instead of the intended https location. the non-secure label should encourage to developers to reduce their use of http and make the switch to https whenever sensitive data is being handled. google's approach is arguably a little clearer than firefox's; where firefox will use a padlock icon with a red line striking it through to indicate that a connection isn't secure, chrome will explicitly put "not secure" in the address bar. further work is planned in both browsers to highlight the use of http. a future version of firefox will include a warning immediately adjacent to the password box itself whenever the page is delivered over http, and mozilla plans to use the struck through padlock icon for every http page. similarly, google intends to eventually include the "not secure" message in the address bar for all pages delivered over http, whether they contain passwords or not. explanation: four laser beams cut across this startling image of the orion nebula, as seen from eso's paranal observatory in the atacama desert on planet earth. not part of an interstellar conflict, the lasers are being used for an observation of orion by ut4, one of the observatory's very large telescopes, in a technical test of an image-sharpening adaptive optics system. this view of the nebula with laser beams was captured by a small telescope from outside the ut4 enclosure. the beams are visible from that perspective because in the first few kilometers above the observatory the earth's dense lower atmosphere scatters the laser light. the four small segments appearing beyond the beams are emission from an atmospheric layer of sodium atoms excited by the laser light at higher altitudes of 80-90 kilometers. seen from the perspective of the ut4, those segments form bright spots or artificial guide stars. their fluctuations are used in real-time to correct for atmospheric blurring along the line-of-sight by controlling a deformable mirror in the telescope's optical path. former chelsea forward salomon kalou scored twice as lille came from behind to beat mid-table bastia and stay in touch with the ligue 1 pacesetters. midfielder ludovic genest shocked the hosts with a third-minute opener, before kalou came to the fore. the ivory coast international showed quick feet to find space and slot home the equaliser, then curled in a sublime finish from the edge of the box. the result saw lille move four points behind leaders paris st-germain. the 2010-11 champions boast the most miserly defence in the french top flight with genest's goal only the sixth they have conceded, and the first at the stade pierre-mauroy since october. their kalou-inspired recovery saw them tighten their grip on third spot, while bastia, whom chelsea midfielder michael essien counts among his former clubs, remain 13th. according to a report in a leading daily, family of deceased mohammad akhlaq has complained to the police that a local bjp leader's son was involved in inciting the murderous mob. the report quotes additional district magistrate rajesh yadav who says that one of the five accused is vishal, son of local bjp leader sanjay rana. the rumour that beef was stored in akhlaq's house was announced by the priest of a local temple. according to the family members of akhlaq, vishal coerced the priest to make the announcement. the priest has already gone on record to say that he was forced to do so. however according to the police, the priest is repeatedly changing his version of how the event unfolded. bjp leader sanjay rana has refuted all allegations saying akhlaq was like his brother and he intimated the police about the horrific lynching incident. he claims to be a dedicated member of the party with association spanning over 20 years. bjp though claims that currently rana is not holding any party post. union cultural minister mahesh sharma on friday stoked another controversy after he reiterated his stand that the lynching of mohamad akhlaq was an accident. sharma also said that no "communal colour" should be given to the incident. the minister visited the bisara village in dadri where he met the family as well as spoke to a sabha that was attended by nearly 200 people. the sabha was organised inside the same temple which was used to make an announcement on monday night calling for people to gather outside mohamad akhlaq's home. akhlaq was later beaten to death by a mob accusing him of eating and storing beef. 13 minutes of obsidian's cancelled aliens rpg while aliens fans lick the acid from wounds inflicted by colonial marines, thirteen minutes of gameplay from a development version of obsidian entertainment's cancelled rpg aliens: crucible have surfaced. it's clearly not finished, but if you want to squint and daydream about what could have been, please do. while aliens fans lick the acid from wounds inflicted by colonial marines, 13 minutes of gameplay from a development version of obsidian entertainment's cancelled squad-based rpg aliens: crucible have surfaced. it's clearly not finished, but if you want to squint and daydream about what could have been, please do. at least part of the video picked up by unseen64 shows a build dated december 22, 2008--not long before it was cancelled. a short snippet from an earlier build leaked out in 2010, but this is the longest and most recent look we've had. the video, a composite of several sections potentially from different builds, shows character creation, skill trees, controlling a squad, dialogue options with consequences, qtes, a variety of weapons, hacking and cutting doors, the queen, and an awful lot of aliens being shot. crucible was announced alongside colonial marines in 2006, but while we saw a fair bit of gearbox's fps, sega had little to say about the rpg. a former obsidian employee said in february 2009 that it had been cancelled, but publisher sega didn't officially announce that until june 2009 and offered no explanation for dropping it. obsidian ceo feargus urquhart commented in 2010 that crucible "looked and felt like it was ready to ship" when sega cancelled the game. while the leaked footage may resemble some manner of finished game, it doesn't look like a particularly good one--not to read too much into a dev build. still, that little problem didn't stop sega from releasing colonial marines. new york -- at the direction of nhl commissioner gary bettman, brendan shanahan immediately relinquished responsibility for overseeing the league's department of player safety upon accepting the position of president of the toronto maple leafs yesterday afternoon. effective with thursday night's games and for the balance of the regular season and throughout the upcoming stanley cup playoffs, stephane quintal assumes the role of conducting hearings and administering supplementary discipline. the national hockey league has a first-rate and fully functional team of professionals staffed in the player safety department that will continue to monitor all plays in all games and to flag plays that warrant review and potential discipline. there will be no change in the approach that has been established by the department of player safety and the league will take all steps necessary to ensure a consistent standard of enforcement and application of discipline for the balance of this season. iconic ufc fighter chael sonnen has told tmz that he wants to buy world wrestling entertainment from the mcmahon family, following his retirement from mixed martial arts. according to the article, members of sonnen's camp claim that he has been meeting with "bigwigs" and investors on future plans to purchase the massive company. however, wwe reps have responded by informing chael that the company is not for sale; they do encourage him to buy wwe stock and become a "valued shareholder". while the idea may sound ridiculous, sonnen is friends with wwe superstar cm punk, and is well known within the fighting world as one of the best "trash talkers" in the business. after his most recent loss to light heavyweight champion jon jones at ufc 159, there has been much talk about a potential retirement for the 36-year-old fighter. however, in an interview with ufc tonight, chael admitted he had no plans to leave fighting any time soon, at least not until he fought wanderlei silva. explanation: september's equinox arrives today at 0905 ut. as the sun crosses the celestial equator heading south, spring begins in the southern hemisphere and autumn in the north. and though the seasonal connection is still puzzling, both spring and autumn bring an increase in geomagnetic storms. so as northern nights grow longer, the equinox also heralds the arrival of a good season for viewing aurora. recorded earlier this month, these curtains of september's shimmering green light sprawl across a gorgeous night skyscape. in the foreground lies hidden lake territorial park near yellowknife, northwest territories, canada. calm water reflects the aurora, with bright star trails peering through the mesmerizing sky glow. of course, shining at altitudes of 100 kilometers or so, planet earth's auroras are visible from space. at least 29 people died and 70 were injured as an explosion ripped through mexico's best-known fireworks market on the northern outskirts of the capital on tuesday, police said. the conflagration, in the suburb of tultepec, sent a huge plume of grey smoke billowing into the sky. children were reported by local news to be among the victims. "we recovered 26 bodies at the scene of the incident. and three more have died in the hospital, for a total of 29 dead," mexico state's governor eruviel avila said. federal police, who had reported an initial death toll of nine, said on twitter that 70 people were hurt and were transported to emergency rooms. isidro sanchez, the head of tultepec emergency services, said the death toll was preliminary as rescue workers scoured the site. fire crews struggled for three hours before bringing the blaze under control. madame speaker: speaker pelosi, your continued leadership of the democratic party through this challenging primary season is very much appreciated. thank you for standing up for the right of the people to choose the nominee and stating that superdelegates should respect the will of the voters. today, march 26, 2008, a group of senator hillary clinton's top donors and fundraisers admonished you for standing up for democracy and, in a veiled threat, implied that they might sever their support of the dccc should their request not be fulfilled. the signatories of this letter suggest that their wealth and power can alter the course of this nomination process. a record-breaking number of voters and caucus-goers representing all demographics have rejected this top-down type of politics that has plagued our politics and government for far too long. senator barack obama's "bottom-up" grassroots efforts have offered us an alternative to the very type of politics that the aforementioned letter suggests: that the wealth of a chosen few influence the outcome of the primary election. yet the obama campaign has shown again and again that the hope of the many has changed the dynamic of wealth-driven politics. supporters of senator obama's campaign have shattered records for donations to a presidential primary--we give not just with our wallets but also with our time, energy, hands, feet, and phone-banking and canvassing skills. the activism we have seen evolve from senator obama's campaign has engaged millions of democratic, independent, and republican voters. if superdelegates overturn the will of the people, the democratic party, and possibly our country, might never recover. speaker pelosi, we respectfully ask for your continued encouragement of superdelegates to support the nominee who has won the most pledged delegates and leads in popular votes. honoring the will of the people who have exercised their right to vote is the ultimate display of democracy. as the recovery of his ship progresses, capt schettino is believed to be at home with his wife in the seaside town of meta di sorrento, near naples. his trial, in which he faces charges of manslaughter and abandoning ship, started in july in grosseto in tuscany, the closest city to the scene of the disaster. he claims that the rocky reef that the ship hit on the night of jan 13 2012 was not marked on his nautical charts - despite the fact that it appears on tourist maps of giglio. at the hearing, his lawyer denied that the captain had deliberately abandoned ship, instead insisting that the skipper had been inadvertently thrown off the ship by accident. capt schettino has previously claimed that he accidentally "tripped" and tumbled into a lifeboat, which was then lowered and took him to shore. "the idea that he abandoned the ship is a wrong interpretation," mr pepe, schettino's lawyer, said outside court. "we want the truth to come out of this trial". capt schettino says he has been made a scapegoat by costa cruises, the italian company that owns the ship, claiming that managers encouraged him to sail close to giglio in order to provide a spectacle for passengers. there is currently a long break in legal proceedings over the summer, with the trial set to reconvene on monday 23 september. up to 700 witnesses and plaintiffs are expected to attend the trial, meaning it could last for years. cheonghaejin marin raised a concern by suggesting it won't cover funeral costs for part time employees of the sunken ferry sewol. by ko dong-hwan the owner of the sunken ferry sewol refused coverage of funeral costs for part-time employees of the ship, according to kookmin ilbo wednesday. the development sprouted from the deaths of lee, 19, and bang, 20, who worked in sewol distributing meals to passengers. after the accident, their bodies were recovered tuesday on the ferry's fifth floor lobby. the report said cheonghaejin marine, the ferry's owner, notified the city of incheon that they will cover funeral expenditures only for its regular employees and not for part-timers. there were a total of four part-time employees on board sewol, among whom two survived the disaster. the report said the four were long-time friends since elementary school. imagine a world in which your every move could be monitored by the government. you might board the train in the morning, switch to the bus to get to the office, later take a ferry to a client meeting. across all modes of public transport, every one of your journeys would be tracked and stored in an ever-growing database that holds a detailed profile of your whereabouts. if this sounds like an over-dramatised scene from a hollywood movie, or an only-in-america national security agency-style surveillance, think again. it could soon be you, once the nsw government introduces the opal card payment system. the card will replace paper tickets on all sydney public transport. it is now being tried on ferries, a trial on one train line starts on friday and it will progressively be introduced across more of the nsw network by the end of next year. the government's aim is "to make travelling an easy and convenient customer experience". the idea is that customers no longer have to queue for paper tickets. you simply load money onto your opal card and swipe at the gates or when entering and leaving a bus. you can also link your opal card to your credit card for automatic top-ups. so far, the public debate on the opal system revolves around its claimed benefits, its costs, and whether or not travel will become more expensive for users. what has gone largely unnoticed so far is the fact that opal might well be the largest people-tracking system ever implemented in australia. sky sports sources understand swansea are in talks with celtic over signing ki sung-yueng. ki's future at celtic has been the subject of conjecture this summer with a number of clubs credited with an interest in the midfielder. the 23-year-old has impressed at parkhead since joining celtic from fc seoul during the january transfer window in 2010, helping them win the spl title last season, while also catching the eye at the olympics with south korea. the likes of arsenal and queens park rangers have been linked with a move for ki, but it appears swansea are in pole position to land the south korean. swansea boss michael laudrup is in the market to bolster his midfield options after selling joe allen to liverpool earlier this summer. celtic are thought to be willing to sell ki for the right price and talks are thought to be at an advanced stage between both clubs. on the sixth day of my weeklong odyssey across america by air, i found myself wedged into a middle seat in the far reaches of a flight from des moines to phoenix, wearing the sweatpants i had slept in. angry at the in-flight movie system and feeling hungry, i turned to my carry-on lunch: a container of yogurt. the yogurt had spent the flight in the seat pocket, building up internal pressure. as i removed the top, it exploded, spraying blobs onto me, the seat, the floor and a nearby man whose mood was not enhanced by the arrival of a wet vanilla-flavored substance in his hair. i never did have lunch that day. as flights go, it was not a personal success. but anyone who travels knows that wretchedness on a plane is only a matter of degree and never confined to a single passenger. the unfriendliness of the skies seems to grow only more baroquely awful with each new incident immortalized on a cellphone. a man is dragged off an oversold united flight in chicago. passengers are menaced by an american airlines flight attendant who has wrested a stroller from a sobbing mother. a father on delta is threatened with the confiscation of his children unless he relinquishes a seat he has paid for. in 1915, an ill-fated expedition known as the ross sea party took to the new zealand side of antarctica to establish supply depots for explorers. after their ship broke loose from the moorings, the six men were stranded and struggled to survive, spending three years on the continent before they were eventually rescued. now, nearly a century later, a new discovery suggests the men may have left behind more than we realized. restoring one of the supply huts used by the party, antarctic conservators discovered a box of 22 unprocessed cellulose nitrate negatives, believed to have been left there by the ross sea party. the photographs show new views of ross island, mcmurdo sound, and two new pictures of the expedition's chief scientist alexander stevens, which linked them to the expedition. more surprising after all that time in the ice, most of the damage to the photos is confined to the edges, and the conservators were able to achieve a near-complete restoration of the images. the restored photos can be seen in full at the antarctic heritage trust website. lineups and stats eibar saw their first ever season in the primera division come to an agonising end as they were relegated despite easing to a 3-0 win over cordoba. mikel arruabarrena, raul navas and ander capa all scored in a rampant first half for gaizka garitano's side, but their primera division dream was killed off as diogo salomao's late equaliser at the nou camp forced a 2-2 draw between deportivo la coruna and barcelona. the galicians stay in the top flight thanks to their superior head-to-head record over eibar, while granada also stay up thanks to their goalless draw with atletico madrid. before this match eibar had managed just one win in the second half of the season, but they wasted no time in taking the lead as captain arruabarrena powered in a header from close range following capa's cross. they scored again just five minutes later as navas rose highest to head in from a corner. saul berjon came close to scoring the third after taking on a cordoba defender but his chipped effort sailed just over the bar so it was left to capa to score next, smashing the ball past goalkeeper mikel saizar from the edge of the area. cordoba, who finish the season with a miserable 20 points and just three wins - the same number of managers that have taken charge of the team this term - finally woke up towards the end of the first half, and luso and deivid both came close to getting a goal back. eibar could not maintain the same intensity in attack in the second half, although capa would have scored a fourth had saizar not produced a fine save. news of salomao's equaliser began to filter through to ipurua in the final few minutes of the game, killing the joyous atmosphere inside the stadium, and eibar were powerless to prevent their return to the segunda division a. the son of assassinated punjab governor salman taseer, who was killed in january for opposing the blasphemy law, has been abducted, pakistan police say. shahbaz taseer's car was intercepted by four men in lahore city's upscale gulberg area on friday. it is not known who seized mr taseer but his family said they had received "threats from extremist groups". governor salman taseer was assassinated by his own bodyguard mumtaz qadri as he was about to get into his car. "four men in a car intercepted shahbaz taseer's car," news agency afp quoted police emergency official syed mumtaz as saying. "they overpowered him at gunpoint and forcibly put him in their car and sped away," he said. police said they have launched a search for mr taseer. his brother sheryar taseer told reuters that their family had been receiving threats from the taliban and extremist groups and that they could be behind the abduction. punjab governor salman taseer was one of pakistan's best-known political figures. his killer said he was angered by the governor's support for reforming pakistan's controversial blasphemy law. french vegetable farmers protesting against falling living standards have set fire to tax and insurance offices in town of morlaix, in brittany. the farmers used tractors and trailers to dump artichokes, cauliflowers and manure in the streets and also smashed windows, police said. prime minister manuel valls condemned protesters for preventing firefighters from dealing with the blaze. the farmers say they cannot cope with falling prices for their products. a russian embargo on some western goods - imposed over the ukraine crisis - has blocked off one of their main export markets. about 100 farmers first launched an overnight attack on an insurance office outside morlaix, which they set light to and completely destroyed, officials said. they then drove their tractors to the main tax office in the town where they dumped unsold artichokes and cauliflowers, smashed windows and then set the building on fire. french media said the farmers then blocked a busy main road in morlaix in both directions. in a statement, mr valls "vigorously" condemned the "looting and destruction by fire" of the buildings. he said violence was not justified and the perpetrators would be prosecuted. image copyright afp image caption many french farmers say they cannot survive with falling prices "it is particularly shocking that firefighters were prevented from accomplishing their mission," he said. mr valls also urged the farmers to continue talks initiated by agriculture minister stephane le foll with national and local officials. farming and the food industry are significant employers in brittany. there have been a number of protests against the government's tax policies. les ferdinand and chris ramsey have left their roles as first-team coaches at tottenham. the pair were part of tim sherwood's coaching team but have departed white hart lane after mauricio pochettino replaced sherwood as manager. ramsey, 52, joined the club in 2004 and previously oversaw the under-21 side and development squad. ferdinand, 47, has worked at tottenham in various roles since joining the club in 2008 as a specialist striker coach. former england striker ferdinand played for tottenham between 1997 and 2003, scoring 39 goals in 146 appearances. sherwood, who promoted ramsey to work with the first-team following his appointment as manager in december 2013 on an 18-month contract, was sacked at the end of last season. pochettino, 42, resigned from southampton in may to take the tottenham job. his assistant jesus perez, first-team coach miguel d'agostino and goalkeeping coach toni jimenez also left southampton to join him at white hart lane. just as president obama was arriving in oregon to meet with families of the victims in last week's deadly shooting at umpqua community college, another fatal shooting happened at texas southern university, killing one person and wounding another. the incident took place at 11:30 am local time, 12:30 pm et at a university apartment complex in southeast houston, reported the houston police department. early reports indicated that the incident involved an active shooter, but the police spokesperson said that they had later detained a possible suspect. related: obama visits families of oregon shooting victims hours after latest school shooting tsu spokesperson eva pickens said in a statement the tsu campus was on lockdown and classes were canceled today. authorities did not release the names of the victims or if they were tsu students. welcome back to another forbes "two on two," where last time i spoke with founder brett mckay of the art of manliness about the immense success of his blog and brand integration on the site. in this edition, however, we turn to personal brand building in the world of sports. often times when considering brand management, we tend to think about consumer products, not human beings. so i was eager to speak with milwaukee brewers pitcher john axford, once a struggling major league baseball player who now has become arguably the best relief pitcher in his sport. we discuss his personal evolution -- from cellphone salesman to big league stopper -- and review the process of building a personal brand outside of his team by aligning with various brands like wahl shavers and movember, and using his social media channels on twitter and facebook to demonstrate the breadth of his personality. a massive crack is growing wider in the antarctic ice sheet and could break apart in coming months, forming a gigantic iceberg, warn nasa scientists. the crack in western antarctica's pine island glacier stretches for at least 30 kilometres and runs 50 metres deep. nasa's image of the crack spreading at a rate of two metres a day on the pine island glacier. credit:afp the rift is widening at a rate of two metres a day, said nasa project scientist michael studinger. when the ice breaks apart, it will produce an iceberg more than 880 square kilometres, said mr studinger, who is part of the us space agency's icebridge project. but the process is not a result of global warming, he said. ''we expect that later this year or early next year there will be a pretty large iceberg forming as part of a natural cycle,'' he added. the atlanta falcons are already searching for a head coach to replace the departed mike smith. general manager thomas dimitroff's job still isn't all that safe either. ian rapoport reported on nfl network's nfl gameday morning that owner arthur blank has told people the new head coach will have a say in the future of the gm, according to sources who have spoken to the owner. until that coach is in place and until the organization decides they are a match, dimitroff's fate hangs in the balance, rapoport reported. it's not a shocker to anyone who watched blank's news conference following smith's dismissal. the owner wouldn't provide assurances about the gm, who was sitting right next to him on the dais. it was an awkward scene, but clearly blank was making a point. dimitroff is a two-time nfl executive of the year and respected within many scouting circles. whether blank's message to coaching candidates is indication of a forthcoming parting of ways or a reshuffling of front office duties remains to be seen. but it is clear that the falcons owner isn't sitting idly by and is willing to take any steps to get the coach he desires. the latest around the nfl podcast recaps every wild card game and looks ahead to the divisional round. find more around the nfl content on nfl now. most of the time, if your drone falls out of the sky and breaks into a dozen pieces, you're going to have a really bad day. but with airblock, the new modular drone from the shenzhen-based robotics startup makeblock, you can snap the whole thing back together and start flying in seconds. the central processor, motors, and rotors are all enclosed in a soft styrofoam frame, and the pieces fit together using magnetic connectors. the unit also comes with a large styrofoam base, and you can reconfigure the pieces used in the drone to make a hovercraft that zips over smooth ground or calm water. the airblock is available today through makeblock's kickstarter project. it's the company's fourth kickstarter, and this one passed its funding goal in less than 24 hours. makeblock is part of an emerging maker movement in shenzhen, which has built a reputation as the silicon valley of china. makeblock focuses heavily on stem education, and the airblock, which it's calling a "starter drone" fits that agenda. you use an app to control the drone, but you can also program aerial routines or create new stunts inside the app using a drag-and-drop coding language similar to scratch. along with tweaking the software, you can assemble the physical pieces into any combination your imagination can conjure up, although most of the new designs we came up with didn't stand a chance of actually getting off the ground. an attack by the islamist group al-shabab in a hotel in the somali capital mogadishu has left at least 14 dead, police say. security forces retook the naso-hablod hotel after gunmen stormed it and took hostages, officials said. those killed are reported to include security guards, civilians and some of the attackers. al-shabab militants frequently carry out attacks in the city in their bid to topple the western-backed government. a suicide bomber first detonated a car with explosives at the gate of the hotel, and the attackers moved in, officials said. once inside, the gunmen shot randomly at guests, a witness said. "they were shooting at everyone they could see. i escaped through the back door," ali mohamud told the associated press news agency. a gun battle then erupted between the attackers and security forces. image copyright ap image caption hotel is popular with politicians and visitors image copyright reuters image caption gunfire erupted between somali forces and the attackers police said at least four men were involved in the assault. the victims included women working outside the hotel, capt mohamed hussein said. it was not immediately clear if guests had also been killed. the naso-hablod hotel, in southern mogadishu, is often used by politicians and tourists. the group said it targeted a place "frequented by the apostate government members", reuters news agency reported. earlier this month at least 10 people were killed and 50 injured in an attack on another hotel in the somali capital, which was claimed by al-shabab. the al-qaeda-linked group was driven from mogadishu in 2011 but still remains a threat and frequently carries out attacks in the city. the government, with the help of african union forces, is fighting al-shabab militants in several parts of the country. welcome to the new york giants legacy club presented by new york-presbyterian. founded in 1925, the giants have a rich history as one of the nfl's cornerstone franchises. we have created a virtual tour through a collection of artifacts that tell the story of our team. from a 1927 game ball used during the giants' first title season to the locker of two-time super bowl mvp eli manning, the legacy club honors every generation of giants football. so whether you grew up watching big blue at the polo grounds or in the team's current home, metlife stadium, re-live the decades of giants lore as you navigate through the tribute room and legends room. be sure to zoom in on individual cases and click on items inside each case for descriptions, historical context, photos, videos, and much more. once a giant, always a giant. as arsenal fans, redaction would like arsenal fc to start playing a proactive leading role in the campaign to reintroduce safe standing to the premier league. but there is still a long way to go before safe standing will be allowed in premier league grounds. both premier league rules and uk law would need to be changed - which means that both the league and the government need lobbying, with evidence of broad support for the idea and a push for change. this campaign has encouraging words of support from around the premier league - it now needs a leader to take it to the next stage, to start actively lobbying in the right places for change. throughout their history, arsenal have been innovators in football, pushing ideas that seemed revolutionary or even impossible at the time. this history of arsenal being leaders, not followers, makes arsenal fans incredibly proud of our club. even now, arsenal reference their history as innovators, with straplines like 'always ahead of the game' and 'forward'. redaction think safe standing is an issue that arsenal should use their respected position in the football world to lead the way on. the push for safe standing in the premier league is gathering pace, with clubs like aston villa and sunderland already publicly in support. when specifically asked, both arsene wenger and ivan gazidis have also said that they think safe standing is a good idea. and is very clear that the idea is popular with fans, as numerous surveys have shown. in commemoration of the launch of the skyrim workshop and creation kit, bethesda has released three video tutorials on how to use the tools. the first episode of the tutorial covers the introduction to the creation kit, introducing would-be modders to the basic tools that will be used throughout the series. the second episode covers the basics of layout, while the third provides detailed information on more advanced techniques. using the creation kit, modders will be able to design the world of skyrim to craft their own adventures and quests, create their own npcs and cities, and design everything from weapons, armor, and whatever else they can imagine. the three episodes of the tutorial series are just the first of bethesda's tutorials for the creation kit, and they intend to release more guides in the days and weeks to come. kenyan police say they have conducted dawn raids on two mosques in the coastal city of mombasa, recovering grenades and ammunition. one person was shot dead by police and more than 250 people were arrested during the operation. police said the masjid musa and shakinah mosques were being used to store weapons. they have accused the masjid musa mosque of having ties to the islamist militant group al-shabab. al-shabab, which is based in neighbouring somalia, has carried out several attacks in kenya since 2011, when kenya sent troops into somalia to battle it. police say they recovered a pistol, eight grenades and a flag associated with al-shabab at the mosques. one man was shot dead during the raid after he "attempted to hurl" a hand grenade at police officers, mombasa police chief geoffrey mayek told reporters. this is the second time this year that the masjid musa mosque has been raided by police, the bbc's emmanual igunza reports from mombasa. police say it is used as a recruitment and training ground for young people seeking to join al-shabab, our correspondent adds. 'volatile situation' activist hussein khalid, from civil society group haki africa, condemned the police raids. "force will only act to heighten tension in what is already a volatile situation," he said in quotes carried by afp news agency. the muslim human rights forum has criticised a previous raid on masjid musa mosque, accusing police of using excessive force. there have been several gun attacks in mombasa this year. both moderate and radical muslim clerics have been shot dead, while a church has also been attacked by gunmen. some muslim leaders have accused the security forces of killing the clerics - charges denied by the authorities. al-shabab, which means "the youth" in arabic, says it is an ally of al-qaeda and is believed to have between 7,000 and 9,000 fighters. world number one andy murray has pulled out of his first exhibition match at hurlingham club with a sore hip. the briton, who was knocked out in the first round at queen's last week, was due to play france's lucas pouille at the aspall tennis classic. murray is still expected to play on friday before he begins the defence of his wimbledon title on 3 july. the 30-year-old last played at hurlingham in 2014 after he lost in the last 16 at queen's. elsewhere, world number two novak djokovic managed just nine minutes of play against canadian vasek pospisil at eastbourne before rain led to play being cancelled for the day. the serb, appearing in his first pre-wimbledon tournament for seven years, was forced to save two break points in his opening service game. elsewhere, britons katie swan and tara moore were knocked out of wimbledon qualifying. analysis bbc tennis correspondent russell fuller this is an "ultra-cautious" decision according to murray's team, and it's expected he will play his other scheduled match at the hurlingham club on friday. murray has been practising at wimbledon in recent days - with young canadian denis shapovalov amongst others - but the disruption is far from ideal given his first-round exit at queen's club last week. it means murray will have a maximum of two matches on grass before he begins the defence of his wimbledon title. synopsis if you've surfed then you know that no other feeling in the world can compare to that of being in harmony with the most mysterious and powerful force on the planet. surfing is very much a tight-knit community with a unique culture housing many creative minds with a lust for the ocean. we want to showcase tuff-city aka tofino, and the many people who creatively and positively influence the surf scene and culture of canada. tofino isn't the go-to destination in the grand scheme of surfing but that doesn't mean that these people aren't there. they matter and although tofino is off the beaten path, there's still some pretty damn good waves out there. our project will start by introducing stefan aftanas: a local shaper who started in his garage 16 years ago, and hasn't looked back since. the death toll from landslides and floods in sri lanka following weeklong heavy storms has risen to 92, officials say. soldiers searching for victims of landslides that buried three villages in the central hills pulled out eight bodies from the rubble, the disaster management centre said on sunday, adding that 109 people were still missing in the landslides. major general sudatha ranasinghe, who is coordinating search efforts in the landslide-hit district of kegalle, said he hopes to pick up the search as the weather conditions turn favourable. the rain had stopped in many parts of the island nation on sunday, and waters were fast receding from the flooded streets of the capital, colombo. more than 185,000 people who are still displaced are being housed in schools and religious places. we had the first few early spring days at the farm. all the early bloomers are in full force and birds are everywhere. the bees were in full force as well taking advantage of all the early flowering going on. in our climate bees never really stop but you can really tell that their activity has slowed down when it gets colder. the experience from the two seasons though is that august is actually much more of a worry because there's nothing to eat. we really need to find some plants or trees we can add to the farm and possibly irrigate to get over that period more gracefully. at this point though they seem to be in great shape. all 6 hives had activity with one of last year's swarms clearly booming. news reporters don't have it easy. staying calm, cool, and collected while on live television is not as easy as it may appear. there can be teleprompter issues or intervening bystanders who are drawn to the cameras. thus, reporters have to be quick on their feet and willing to adapt to changing circumstances. advertisement jessica sanchez of click orlando recently proved her ability to think on her feet - and the internet was blown away. when a drunk passerby interrupted her newscast, sanchez decided to have a bit of fun. sanchez informed the woman that they were doing a report on the prevalence of stds on bourbon street in new orleans. the woman's demeanor quickly changed when she realized she didn't want to be the subject of that interview. three toronto men are facing dozens of charges related to the alleged sexual assault of a 13-year-old girl. police say the assault took place last august, a month after 19-year-old trian vassel had allegedly begun talking to the girl. they say vassel lured her to his home where he and two of his friends allegedly assaulted her. story continues below advertisement police arrested vassel while he was in custody on other matters and charged him with a total of 28 counts including sexual assault causing bodily harm, forcible confinement and making child pornography. gavin campbell and keyon small, both 20, are facing seven and five charges respectively including gang sexual assault and forcible confinement. police say they believe there may be other victims and are urging anyone with information to come forward. the original zero tolerance 0454 was an award-winning collaboration between zt and custom knife designer dmitry sinkevich. but it was also a very limited edition knife. to make this amazing knife more readily available, zt has created a new-for-2015 version based on the original's streamlined form and high-performance function. the 0452cf is the same size as the original 0454, but with a carbon fiber front scale and s35vn dual-finished blade. s35vn sharpens to a razor edge, holds it, and can be re-sharpened easily. the 0452cf opens as smooth as butter with the kvt ball-bearing opening system and built-in flipper. a titanium frame lock with hardened steel lockbar insert ensures solid lock up. as a final touch of class, the 0452cf features handsome 5-spoke pivot hardware. from office to outdoors, the 0452cf is ready to go wherever you're ready to take it. "that has got to end," sanders said during a major iowa democratic gathering friday after listing names of african-americans whose deaths this year involved police, the des moines register reported. advertisement "no one will fight harder than i will to end racism in america and to reform our broken criminal justice system," sanders added of addressing the nation's incarceration rates disproportionally affecting minorities. he has included a variation of that line in speeches in portland and los angeles over the past week that drew massive crowds after having two previous public appearances derailed by protesters affiliated with the black lives matter movement. activists involved in the movement have pushed sanders and others to offer more concrete solutions on race relations. sanders was one of many presidential candidates appearing in the early-voting state of iowa this weekend for the state fair and other events. dozens of protesters marching in the yemeni capital, sanaa, have been beaten back by houthi rebels who control the capital, witnesses said. the rebels fired automatic rifles in the air and struck the anti-houthi protesters with batons and knives, ap news agency reported on wednesday. the witnesses said the rebels detained several protesters and journalists, and that around 10 people were lightly wounded in scuffles. yemeni newspaper source online said that one of its journalists was being held by the houthis, adding that it considered the group responsible for his safety. the houthis seized sanaa in september and last week put the president, prime minister and top cabinet members under house arrest, leading to their resignation. since then, demonstrations against the houthis have been held. the rebels detained around a dozen protesters and journalists on monday. visual novel dated at mcm comic-con in london. steins;gate 0 will launch both physically and digitally for playstation 4 and ps vita in north america on november 29 and europe on november 25, publisher pqube announced at mcm comic-con in london. the game will be available in standard, limited, and rice digital-exclusive amadeus editions. here is a brief overview of the game, via pqube: steins;gate 0 is a brand new story in the acclaimed science fiction visual novel franchise. praised by fans and critics alike for its incredible characterization and storytelling, steins;gate is widely considered to be the greatest visual novel ever made. steins;gate 0 looks set to maintain this exceptionally high standard with a story which explores an alternative world line. when a scientist okabe rintaro realizes he is unable to save the love of his life, he sinks into a great depression. giving up on his friends, his research and, crucially, time-travel itself, a series of events which looks set to endanger all of humanity takes place. can fan-favorite steins;gate characters, mayuri, farris, daru, moeka, luka and suzuha bring him back from the brink? along with a brand new cast of characters and new scientific themes which fuse time travel and artificial intelligence, steins;gate fans can prepare themselves for an all-new, darker storyline which will blow their minds. watch the first english trailer below. i would like to take the oxymoron from the abstract of the article that is on the front page: "competing globally". it is not possible to compete in a global system. global world means that the whole human society has become interconnected and interdependent on all levels of human activity, the whole global society has become a single, fully integrated system. while for example in europe politicians, economists are still arguing about the level of integration they need to save the union, the system we evolved into comes with "inbuilt" full integration. in other words we try to resist the evolutionary conditions we exist, we still pretend as each and every individual and nation would be separate and could do whatever they want. a global, integral system is based on and sustained by full, mutually complementing cooperation. any ruthless competition the article and other experts still try to pursue is suicidal like preferring a cancer instead of a healthy organ. and this is not even on the theoretical level any more, the evidence is in the news every day, it is in the statistics, in the desperate helplessness of the g8, g20 meetings, any other summit or negotiations. we really have no choice in the matter except adapting to the system willingly or by forced as a result of suffering. if we choose the willing participation, we can unlock such potential in the global, integral and natural system around us that we could not even imagine before. instead of the constant struggle, failures, waste we could exist effortlessly since we would be partnering the system and not constantly fighting against it. another massive trade coup could be in the winds for west coast, with suggestions star north melbourne ruckman todd goldstein has had a medical with the eagles. watoday columnist and radio 6pr commentator brad hardie said on the sports today program that he had been told both goldstein and geelong big man nathan vardy had the rule run over them by west coast medicos. following the bombshell trade of four-time hawthorn premiership midfielder sam mitchell to west coast, the talk around all-australian goldstein gained momentum on friday after a source close to the kangaroos told watoday he wanted out of the roos because of a personal issue and was seriously considering moving west. hardie says the potential trade has now gone further than just discussions, although fellow watoday football writer and sports today co-host kim hagdorn maintained it would be close to impossible for the eagles to fit goldstein inside an already tight salary cap squeeze. the sunday afternoon clash with the melbourne storm will see the club celebrate everything that we remember, and some things that we forgot, from the 1980s. from 80s music, to fashion, to hairstyles and everything in between, the round 7 game will provide an opportunity for fans to get into the spirit of the 1980s. to mark the occasion wests tigers will be holding a best-dressed competition on the day, with some great prizes on offer. so start thinking of your favourite 80s style, dust off those clothes at the back of the wardrobe and get into the spirit at leichhardt oval. the best way to get to leichhardt oval is via public transport, with north leichhardt light rail stop within walking distance of the game. a team of nasa's larc engineers and designers from clouds architecture office and search made the design after they'd won first place in nasa's earlier centennial challenge for their 3d printed "mars ice house" habitat. their new concept describes a torus -- a large, inflatable innertube -- lined with a shell of water ice. not only is the structure lightweight, it incorporates materials from mars itself. in addition, the water, which protects against cosmic rays, could be repurposed as rocket fuel for the mars ascent lander. the mars ice home is just a concept with some drawbacks -- for example, experts at martian resource extraction say it would take 400 days to fill the shell with enough water directly from the planet. on the other hand, robots could inflate and pump the shelter while the astronauts are en route, and the water's radiation shielding would allow the shelter to exist aboveground, obviating the need to dig deep enough to protect the shelter's inhabitants. it's far more theory than ironed-out solution, but the ice home is just the kind of fascinating concept that will prod designers and experts to innovate elegant, efficient answers to martian exploration's challenges. with roman catholic clergy in short supply in the united states, indian priests are picking up some of their work, saying mass for special intentions, in a sacred if unusual version of outsourcing. american, as well as canadian and european churches, are sending mass intentions, or requests for services like those to remember deceased relatives and thanksgiving prayers, to clergy in india. about 2 percent of india's more than one billion people are christians, most of them catholics. in kerala, a state on the southwestern coast with one of the largest concentrations of christians in india, churches often receive intentions from overseas. the masses are conducted in malayalam, the native language. the intention -- often a prayer for the repose of the soul of a deceased relative, or for a sick family member, thanksgiving for a favor received, or a prayer offering for a newborn -- is announced at mass. the requests are mostly routed to kerala's churches through the vatican, the bishops or through religious bodies. rarely, prayer requests come directly to individual priests. advertisement continue reading the main story while most requests are made via mail or personally through traveling clergymen, a significant number arrive via e-mail, a sign that technology is expediting this practice. through an update to the sense tv app, htc revealed that they would be ending support for the app at the end of april. sense tv worked with the htc one m8's ir blaster, functioning as an interactive tv guide. now we have official confirmation that htc will be transitioning users over to the regular peel app in place of the old sense tv app. htc tells windows central that after the cut-off, users will be prompted to download the peel app in place of sense tv on both windows and android devices. the two apps are essentially the same, the big difference here being sense tv was a branded version with design input from the taiwanese manufacturer. while sense tv is still available in the windows phone store for the time being, we're not seeing an official listing for the peel app on windows as yet. hopefully the new app will kick in in plenty of time before the shutdown. the altai region of southern siberia has played a critical role in the peopling of northern asia as an entry point into siberia and a possible homeland for ancestral native americans. it has an old and rich history because humans have inhabited this area since the paleolithic. today, the altai region is home to numerous turkic-speaking ethnic groups, which have been divided into northern and southern clusters based on linguistic, cultural, and anthropological traits. to untangle altaian genetic histories, we analyzed mtdna and y chromosome variation in northern and southern altaian populations. all mtdnas were assayed by pcr-rflp analysis and control region sequencing, and the nonrecombining portion of the y chromosome was scored for more than 100 biallelic markers and 17 y-strs. based on these data, we noted differences in the origin and population history of altaian ethnic groups, with northern altaians appearing more like yeniseian, ugric, and samoyedic speakers to the north, and southern altaians having greater affinities to other turkic speaking populations of southern siberia and central asia. moreover, high-resolution analysis of y chromosome haplogroup q has allowed us to reshape the phylogeny of this branch, making connections between populations of the new world and old world more apparent and demonstrating that southern altaians and native americans share a recent common ancestor. these results greatly enhance our understanding of the peopling of siberia and the americas. many people in washington believe that after all the appeals are exhausted, the constitutionality of president obama's health care law will be decided by the us supreme court. these same people speculate that four justices will vote with president obama and four justices will vote against him. so the future rests, they say, with supreme court justice anthony kennedy, who would, in this scenario, cast the deciding vote. adam liptak argues that a "partisan" vote by the supreme court would be a very bad thing for american jurisprudence. harvard law school professor lawrence tribe disagrees with the "one vote decides all" scenario and says that supreme court's decision will be based on precedent, not politics. the supreme court will likely hear the case next year, probably in the middle of the presidential general election campaign. so whatever the court eventually decides will almost immediately become a big political issue. a 4-year-old girl is recovering in the hospital after falling out of the back of a moving bus saturday, and the horrifying incident was caught on video. licensed emt and volunteer firefighter ryan ciampoli was driving on a busy highway in harrison, arkansas, when he saw the young girl swing the back door of the bus open, hanging on for a brief moment before toppling onto the pavement. his dash camera happened to be running as he witnessed the accident and immediately sprang into action. ciampoli told klrt-tv that the girl was initially unconscious but began waking up as he approached her. "obviously, you want to leave her laying there if she's not in danger, but we're in the middle of a state highway so i couldn't leave her just laying there," he said. he carefully picked her up and laid her in a nearby truck bed where he assessed her condition and kept her conscious before the paramedics could arrive. "once the adrenaline and the shock kicked in in her little body, she started kicking and screaming, and 'where's my mommy,' things like that. stuff like that is really heartbreaking," ciampoli said. the young girl suffered a broken jaw and will need surgery, according to her mother, but she is expected to be released from the hospital monday. it is unclear how the little girl managed to open the back door or why the bus driver did not stop when she fell. riot police and army troops have been deployed in southern sri lanka following an outbreak of violence between buddhists and muslims, and a curfew has been imposed for the second night running. nineteen people were arrested when clashes erupted in galle province, after a traffic accident. homes and businesses were attacked and several properties damaged. authorities say the sectarian violence has now been brought under control. "additional police battalions, the police special task force, the anti-riot squad and the military were called in last night to bring the situation under control," law and order minister sagala ratnayaka said in a statement. he also warned people not to stir up sectarian hatred on social media. mp manusha nanyakkara told the bbc that 10 vehicles were destroyed, the majority of which were owned by muslims, and 62 homes and businesses were attacked. he said the 6pm-6am curfew was imposed as a security measure to prevent further violence. image caption a damaged motorbike is discarded in the street following the violence image caption several properties in galle province were vandalised the outbreak of street violence between majority sinhalese buddhists and minority muslims started after an incident involving a muslim woman and a motorbike driven by a buddhist man. a police spokesman said people were arrested after "spreading false messages and rumours on social media" that contributed to the escalation in violence. similar clashes in a nearby area three years ago forced thousands of muslims to flee their homes. research suggests the majority of women arrested in domestic violence incidents are themselves victims of ongoing abuse from their male partner. the research, by the anti domestic violence group shine, analysed the arrests of 60 women in auckland city between april and september last year. the report's author, deborah mackenzie, says of 35 women who assaulted their male partners, 19 used violence in response to ongoing abuse. dual arrests, where both parties are taken into custody, featured in nine out of the 35 cases. ms mackenzie says this indicates the police sometimes have difficulty in identifying who the dangerous person is in the relationship. she says officers should be trained to identify which party is most at risk. ms mackenzie says in some cases men want to be the first person to call police, knowing they will be treated as the victim rather than the offender. a wing from an aircraft, suspected to be from mh370, is being analysed by the australian government, officials have confirmed. australian infrastructure and transport minister darren chester said the wing part was found on pemba island off the coast of tanzania. he said the aircraft part had arrived in australia and was currently being examined at the australian transport safety bureau. he said experts from malaysia and australia were analysing the part at the bureau's labs in canberra. malaysia airlines flight mh370 disappeared on march 8 2014 when it was en route from kuala lumpur to beijing. a total 239 passengers and crew were on board. it is believed the plane plummeted into the indian ocean and authorities have been searching underwater for the missing plane. in the latest search update this month, officials said poor weather conditions had severely impacted search operations and resulted in six to eight week delays in search operations. deep tow equipment can be used to search the ocean in marginal weather conditions but an underwater vehicle, which is used to survey some of the most difficult parts of the search area including underwater canyon areas, can only be launched in calmer conditions in spring and summer. more than 110,000 square kilometres of the seafloor has been searched so far. the target is to search 120,000 square kilometres. alastair reveals how ancient greece and rome are still recognisable to us today. alastair began his love of the ancient at cambridge, completing his doctorate in greek history before going on to teach at oxford. he spent time living in athens, studying with archaeologists and scholars in greece where he could imagine the ancient world coming to life. alastair's renowned for his vast knowledge and infectious enthusiasm for the ancient worlds of greece and rome. he says that in the ancient world, cheese is the protein hero, not meat, and that greek statues are disfigured fantasies that represented ideals that could never be attained. according to alastair, we also have the ancients to thank for our modern attitudes towards body hair. he has written books and articles on the roman orgy, the popularity of abdominal muscles, and representations of greece and rome in cinema. further information alastair is currently the paul eliadis chair of classics and ancient history at the university of queensland. he has written several books including: hercules: a heroic life, sex: vice and love from antiquity to modernity, and classics on screen: ancient greece and rome on film. alastair blanshard returns with more tales of men and gods in classical greece and rome. australians have expressed outrage that a company which uses schools for weekend war games has promoted them as being "perfect killing fields". one parents' association described the promotions, in the state of queensland, as totally inappropriate. an opposition education spokesman said such activities on school property sent the wrong message when the authorities were trying to stop school violence. prime minister kevin rudd questioned why schools allowed such activities. a spokeswoman for the queensland education authority said school principals decided on the hiring facilities for community use in consultation with local associations. 'most modern guns' the bbc's nick bryant reports that the company urban assault runs outdoor war games using laser guns, and advertises on its website four schools in queensland as ideal battlefields. one school on the gold coast, it says, offers the "perfect urban assault battlefield". long range weapons rule, it goes on, and it's "perfect for setting up killing fields with our gattling guns". the website shows pictures of adults and children dressed in camouflage firing laser weapons in the schools, and the company says it has the "most modern realistic guns available in australia". the head of a queensland parents association said the photos and advertisement were totally inappropriate and that she was "absolutely horrified". the state education department has asked the company to remove references to schools from its promotional material. the 90's was the last real golden age for music. this isn't a jaded, cynical and age related statement. many younger fans, who are very serious about their music will agree. the last fourteen years has spawned some fairly significant, if somewhat, isolated movements, and truly classic releases but nothing as like the fertile, three or four decades that preceded them. in this article we only are going to look at fifty albums from the 90's, that not only had a lasting musical legacy, but had a huge cultural impact as well. this is not going to be easy, when you think that it works out at only five albums per year, in a time when there was literally several landmark releases a month. this is by no means in order of importance, as it will be listed from 1990 at one end to 1999 at the other. there will be albums left out that will break my heart to do so, but thoughts have to be on the above mentioned brief, and not just because they were incredible. for example, a truly brilliant album such as 'let the rhythm hit 'em' by eric b and rakim from the 1990 is a glaring omission, but was it really as important as other releases from the same year? of course, we encourage you to share your thoughts and opinions in the comments section. today's incarnation is a poet who established one of the great world religions: guru nanak, the 15th century founder of sikhism. like the buddha and mahavira, the founder of the jain religion, nanak was a wanderer. he spent 25 years on the road and is said to have travelled as far as mecca and the himalayas. but, unlike his predecessors, when he had achieved enlightenment he returned to his homelands in the punjab. he taught his disciples that, rather than renouncing the world and retreating from it, they must use their faith to change it from within. nanak's 'disciplined worldliness' emphasised the importance of work and family. he also instituted an idea which is practised in sikh temples all over the world. sunil khilnani visits the gurudwara nanak piao in delhi as they serve the langar, a meal provided by volunteers to anyone who comes, regardless of status, sex or religion. everybody eats together in an equalizing act, a dispelling of the taboos designed to protect caste boundaries. sunil explores the life of a man whose ideas were polemical and provocative. in announcing that "there is neither hindu nor muslim" nanak wasn't proposing a harmonious blend of religions. instead, he was rejecting other paths and creating an entirely new religion, one which now has around 30 million followers. producer: jeremy grange original music composed by talvin singh. shlomo benizri, of the ultra-orthodox jewish shas party, said the tremors had been caused by lawmaking that gave "legitimacy to sodomy". israel decriminalised homosexuality in 1988 and has since passed several laws recognising gay rights. two earthquakes shook the region last week and a further four struck in november and december. adoption mr benizri made his comments while addressing a committee of the israeli parliament, or knesset, about the country's readiness for earthquakes. he called on lawmakers to stop "passing legislation on how to encourage homosexual activity in the state of israel, which anyway brings about earthquakes". israeli court rulings in recent years have granted inheritance rights to gay couples and recognised same-sex marriages performed abroad. last week, israel's attorney general ruled same-sex couples could adopt. as if there weren't enough real jellyfish around to trigger our thalassophobia, researchers at virginia tech have created cryo -- an eight-armed autonomous robot that mimics jelly movement with the help of a flexible silicone hat. the man-sized jellybot altogether dwarfs previous efforts, hence the upgrade from small tank to swimming pool for mock field tests. and unlike the passively propelled bots we've seen recently, cryo runs on batteries, with the researchers hoping to better replicate the energy-efficient nature of jelly movement to eventually increase cryo's charge cycle to months instead of hours. that's also the reason these robotic jellyfish are getting bigger -- because the larger they are, the further they can go. potential uses include ocean monitoring and perhaps clearing oil spills, but the us navy, which is funding the work, sees an opportunity to recruit jellies for underwater surveillance -- a job the researchers say is suited to their natural-looking disguise. but, before the tables are turned, you can spy on cryo for yourself in the video below. a state agency that makes loans and grants to schools and local governments remains without a permanent leader. tia nelson resigned as executive secretary of the board of commissioners of public lands in july, after republican commissioner and state treasurer matt adamczyk tried to ban nelson from speaking about climate change. board chairman and state attorney general brad schimel said there are now eight candidates to replace nelson. "there have been additional resumes that have come in, although i can't imagine why anybody would want this job right now, to tell you the truth," he said. schimel, a republican, said there have been verbal attacks on some of the applicants, most of whom have ties to the republican party. schimel also said some of the commissioners' meetings have been very contentious. the board may meet again later this month after schimel finishes an opinion on public information about the applicants. a somali man has admitted attacking a us warship in april after mistaking it for a merchant vessel. jama idle ibrahim and five others chased the uss ashland and opened fire on it before being captured, court papers said. he pleaded guilty to piracy-related charges in norfolk, virginia, and faces 30 years in jail. five other somalis also face charges over the attack. prosecutors said it was norfolk's first piracy-related conviction in 150 years. "modern-day pirates must be held accountable," said neil macbride, prosecuting. after making a deal with the authorities, ibrahim pleaded guilty to attacking to plunder a vessel, engaging in an act of violence against people on a vessel, and using a firearm during a crime of violence. both ibrahim and the authorities had agreed to a 30-year jail term, and he faces a sentencing hearing on 29 november. earlier this month a judge had dismissed a piracy charge - which carries a mandatory life sentence - against ibrahim and his five alleged accomplices. the gang had chased the uss ashland in a skiff in the gulf of aden on 10 april, opening fire on it. us navy personnel returned fire, killing one somali and wrecking the men's skiff, prosecutors said. but the judge dismissed the more serious piracy charge because the group had not robbed, boarded or taken control of the us navy ship. somalia has been ravaged by internal conflict for two decades, and pirates have flourished amid the lawlessness. foreign countries have generally been reluctant to try suspects in their own countries, so pirates are often allowed to go free after an unsuccessful attack. during the week before christmas , jake was the most important person of our household, for he was to go to town and do all our christmas shopping. i want to spend the first christmas of our life together in our own home," decreed anne. great was the excitement in the houses of king as christmas drew nigh. marilla knew all the following fortnight that matthew had something on his mind, but what it was she could not guess, until christmas eve, when mrs. and they seemed to waken the city--all around, far and near, there were bells, ringing wild music; for fully a minute jurgis lay lost in wonder, before, all at once, the meaning of it broke over him--that this was christmas eve! the party enters the mountain gorge a wild fastness among hills mountain mutton peace and plenty the amorous trapper-a piebald wedding-a free trapper's wife-her gala equipments- christmas in the wilderness. he carried his own low temperature always about with him; he iced his office in the dogdays; and didn't thaw it one degree at christmas . but christmas puddings, brawn, and abundance of spirituous liquors, throwing the mental originality into the channel of nightmare, are great preservatives against a dangerous spontaneity of waking thought. public-houses, besides their usual exhortation against temperance reform, invited men to "join our christmas goose club"--one bottle of gin, etc. the first thing that reminded us that christmas had arrived was the "foreday" visits of scores of children rapping at our doors, asking for "chris'mus gifts rose made phebe promise that she would bring her stocking into the "bower," as she called her pretty room, on christmas morning, because that first delicious rummage loses half its charm if two little night-caps at least do not meet over the treasures, and two happy voices oh and ah together. in what has been described as one of the worst instances of child abuse seen in australia, 12 children ranging in age from five to 16 years old have been permanently removed from an extended family in south-west nsw, where they were living on a farm in primitive conditions in what appears to be an incestuous community. in the children's court in september, judge peter johnstone ruled that the children, known by pseudonyms to protect their identity, should be permanently removed from the four mothers involved. he said there was evidence of "intergenerational incest" and that the mothers' refusal to acknowledge their own traumatic past meant they could not protect their children from continuing sexual abuse. a few weeks ago, two more children were removed from a fifth mother from the same family in victoria after she admitted to social workers that her brother was the father of her children. comedian dave chappelle explains the problem to talk show host oprah winfrey. who: eddie murphy when: 1996 and 2007 movie: the nutty professor and norbit roles: eddie murphy is well-known for dressing up and physically transforming into his characters, especially women. murphy played two women in the nutty professor where he performed a total of seven roles. but his most questionable female character portrayal was rowdy rasputia from the movie norbit, who murphy played as grossly overweight, wearing dresses and bikinis. who: jamie foxx when: april 1990 to may 1994 tv show: in living color roles: before he was an academy award-winning actor, jamie foxx would wear drag to entertain audiences. during his time on the hit television show in living color, foxx dressed up as the character wanda in comedy skits. islamabad: the pakistani taliban has said that it will carry out more attacks on "secular" political parties like the anp and mqm, warning people to stay away from their rallies, a day after a blast outside an anp gathering injured about 10 people. tehrik-e-taliban pakistan spokesman ihsanullah ihsan told the media in the country's northwest that his group would target the country's "secular parties" like the awami national party, which rules khyber-pakhtunkhwa province, and the muttahida qaumi movement, part of the ruling coalition at the centre. "the attack on the anp gathering was just the beginning. the attacks will intensify on the political gatherings of the secular anp and mqm," ihsan was quoted as saying by the media. the anp and mqm were on the taliban's hit list because of their enmity to the militants, he said. referring to other political parties, he said, "though they are all one as far as their secular ideology is concerned, the taliban will announce its strategy regarding other parties later". about 10 people, including cops and anp workers, were injured when a bomb went off in the parking area of a rally at charsadda in khyber-pakhtunkhwa on monday. the los angeles angels may not have lost their closer for the season after all. right-hander huston street has been diagnosed with a grade 1 left groin strain, and hopes to return at some point during the playoffs if the team qualifies. the veteran had to be helped off the field during an appearance in saturday's 3-2 win over the seattle mariners, and manager mike scioscia described street's groin injury as "significant" postgame. setup man joe smith is dealing with a sprained ankle, so rookie trevor gott and righty mike morin are the likely options to be used in high-leverage situations for the rest of the regular season. los angeles is only a half-game behind the houston astros for the final american league wild-card spot with seven games remaining. street led the al with 40 saves before suffering the injury. the louisiana department of health's public health laboratory has confirmed two more cases of travel-related zika virus. dhh officials say the newest patients had travelled to a region with ongoing zika activity and sought medical care in louisiana afterward, where tests confirmed the infection. so far, six louisiana residents have had the infection, and all have recovered. there have been no confirmed cases of local transmission within louisiana or in the rest of the 50 states. here's more info from a louisiana dhh news release: after separately travelling to areas with ongoing zika transmission, the patients returned to louisiana and began to show symptoms of an illness, prompting the individuals to seek treatment. the patients and their health care providers have been notified of the zika-positive result. the individuals have recovered and no longer have the virus in their blood. click here for national and state zika case counts. the international olympic committee says it is satisfied with the progress made by the brazilian city of rio de janeiro in its preparations for the 2016 olympics. less than six months ago, a senior ioc official criticised rio's preparations as the worst in living memory. the ioc inspection team chair, nawal el moutawakel, said the construction of hotel rooms and of olympic venues were "on track". but she said "the schedule was tight". at the end of their three-day visit to rio, ms el moutawakel said their main concern had been hotel rooms and the pace of building the olympic sports venues. she said 68 hotels were under construction in rio, which she called " a challenge" for the city. but she said, "i think rio will experience a full transformation. the games will have an impact on the population and on the entire country. " image copyright reuters image caption brazilian president dilma rousseff visited the olympic park alongside members of the ioc and the local olympic committee in a press release, the ioc said that preparations for the games had been boosted by "a successful winter in brazil" that included the fifa world cup, rio 2016's first test event. the ioc said the schedule remained tight but "the rio team clearly demonstrated that they had the situation under control". just as soon as power was restored saturday morning to the area of the nyack marina, a stubborn fire broke out in a large electrical equipment box that serves the marina, according to the nyack fire department. nyack fire chief james petriello said volunteer firefighters could not use water to fight the fire, instead using foam and dry chemicals to put out the fire. no one was injured in the fire. petriello said the electrical box was damaged in hurricane sandy, which slammed the nyack marina and destroyed a house boat that had long been a fixture at the marina. when power was restored, petriello said oil inside the metal cabinet caught fire. in addition to using dry chemicals and foam, petriello said firefighters had to cut open the electrical box. the fire was extinguished after about 40 minutes. as 20 volunteer firefighters were battling the fire, several other fire calls came in, but they were false alarms. tampa bay - the tampa bay lightning have assigned forward alexander volkov to the syracuse crunch of the american hockey league, vice president and general manager steve yzerman announced today. volkov, 20, appeared in three preseason games for the lightning, posting a pair of goals to go along with two penalty minutes. the 6-foot-1, 191-pound forward scored both goals last sunday against the florida panthers, earning first star honors. he ranks tied for first on the bolts for goals during the preseason. the moscow, russia native skated in 16 games with ska st. petersburg in the mhl, the russian junior league, last season, posting six goals and 11 points to go along with 12 penalty minutes. the 6-foot-1, 191-pound forward also appeared in 15 games with neva st. petersburg, scoring three goals and four penalty minutes. volkov has played in 128 career games with ska st. petersburg over four seasons, registering 33 goals and 61 points to go along with 88 penalty minutes. volkov was selected by tampa bay in the second round, 48th overall, at the 2017 nhl draft. austin police have suspended two police officers who blocked an activist from recording video of a traffic stop. james maufrais and jesse lane were seen on video in november obstructing and pointing a flashlight at activist phillip turner, who has filmed police in various texas cities and sued at least three police departments in the state after being confronted over videotaping. maufrais received a 20-day suspension without pay, and lane was suspended for 10 days. maufrais' attorney on friday told kxan-tv that he was caught off guard by someone videotaping him and had returned less than a year earlier from afghanistan. turner told the station that there was "no way" to justify the officers' actions. texas law generally allows videotaping of police officers in a public space without permission. banks have placed the condition that borrowers should not use even personal loans to buy gold, a senior official of a private sector bank said. with a view to curb appetite for gold, banks are sanctioning advances, including personal loans, only if borrowers agree not to use the proceeds to buy the metal beyond permitted levels. banks have placed the condition that borrowers should not use even personal loans to buy gold, a senior official of a private sector bank said. the measures follow directions from the reserve bank of india to banks and nbfcs that are aimed at reining in demand for the yellow metal. the rbi and the government have taken steps to curb demand for gold after imports of the metal widened the current account deficit. as per existing guidelines, no advances can be granted by banks for the purchase of gold in any form, including primary gold, gold bullion, gold jewellery, gold coins, units of gold exchange traded funds and units of gold mutual funds. for advances against the security of specially minted gold coins sold by banks, the rbi has directed that the weight of the coins should not exceed 50 grams per customer, according to a senior public bank official. in june, the rbi restricted the import of gold on consignment basis by banks only to meet the needs of exporters of gold jewellery. last month, the central bank prohibited the import of gold coins and medallions without licence. it further stipulated that nominated banks, agencies and other entities should make gold available for domestic use only to entities engaged in the jewellery business, bullion dealers and banks authorised to administer the gold deposit scheme against whole upfront payment. steps taken by the government to curb inbound shipments include raising import duty on the metal to 10 per cent. after a dip in june, gold imports surged in july to 47 tonnes compared with 31 tonnes in the previous month. import of gold in april-july rose 87 per cent to 383 tonnes. barcelona will host chapecoense in a friendly on 7 august to pay tribute to those who died when the brazilian team's plane crashed last november. only three of the club's players survived the crash on 29 november, when 71 of 77 people on board died. barcelona say the game will help chapecoense "rebuild institutionally and recover the competitive level it had before the tragedy". the winner of the game at the nou camp will receive the joan gamper trophy. the annual invitational game is traditionally where barcelona unveil their team for the new season to home fans. the crash happened as chapecoense were travelling to face colombian side atletico nacional in the final of the copa sudamericana. defenders neto and alan ruschel, and goalkeeper jackson follmann, who had his leg amputated, were among the six survivors, while 19 players and the coaching staff died. they signed 25 new players this season and promoted nine from the youth team. if you're somebody who likes to crack your knuckles before tackling a tough task, listen up. a study led by researchers at the university of alberta has cracked the secret behind the popping sound knuckles make when they're cracked. the secret to the sound is a momentary, vacuum-like gap formed in the lubricating synovial fluid between the finger and knuckle bones. when the joints are pulled apart too far, a momentary gas-filled gap forms in between, triggering the sound. lead author and u of a professor greg kawchuk says the "pull my finger" study could lead to future breakthroughs in joint health, including better analysis of spinal injuries, knee problems and other joint difficulties. "it may be that we can use this new discovery to see when joint problems begin long before symptoms start," kawchuk said in a statement. kawchuk's international team of scientists used mri scans to watch a knuckle crack in super-slow motion. a video of the mri shows a momentary pocket of darkness between the knuckle and finger bones as they are pulled apart. "you can actually see very clearly what is happening inside the joints," said kawchuk. the mri also revealed a brief flash of white just before the cracking sound occurs. kawchuk says no one has ever observed that flash before, and he hopes to analyze it further with more powerful mri machines in the future. scientists say the force generated by knuckle-cracking is enough to damage a hard surface. however, medical research has found no ill effects in people who indulge their knuckle-cracking habit. kawchuk says the study findings will form the basis of further research into joint health and arthritic pain. "the ability to crack your knuckles could be related to joint health," he said. kawchuk is an expert in spinal structure and function with a phd in bioengineering. the study is published in the april 15 edition of the journal plos one. hard to say what was more remarkable about the resolution that was read into the record and referred to committee wednesday by a member of the 87th arkansas general assembly. the resolution itself: hjr 1009: amending the arkansas constitution to repeal the prohibition against an atheist holding any office in the civil departments of the state of arkansas or testifying as a witness in any court. or the fact that it was submitted by the green party's highest-ranking elected official in america, state rep. richard carroll of north little rock, who was elected in november winning more than 80 percent of the vote in his district. arkansas is one of half a dozen states that still exclude non-believers from public office. article 19 section 1 of the 1874 arkansas constitution states that "no person who denies the being of a god shall hold any office in the civil departments of this state, nor be competent to testify as a witness in any court. if you're reading this, then you're probably always looking ahead at what technology might bring next. tomorrow at 10am et, us congress members of the subcommittee on communications and technology will be doing that too. the specific segment of the market being discussed is video and on the docket to testify is a who's who of the video business. the old guard, ncta and the mpaa, is being represented by michael power -- yes, the previous chairman of the fcc -- and michael o'leary, respectively. on the other side are representatives from dish network, sky angel, netflix, roku and public knowledge. so yeah, this could get interesting. the ncta has already starting posturing on its blog, cable tech talk, with a post highlighting all the wonderful changes in the video distribution industry in the past 20 years -- however, curiously, the upwardly creeping price of the average bill wasn't mentioned. of course a subcommittee hearing is just the first of a very long process towards real change, and while we'd be shocked if any of our ideas are implemented anytime soon, it's good to see some movement in washington on a topic we care about. image caption staff at one fake apple store in kunming were dressed to resemble real staffers. a total of 22 fake apple stores have been uncovered in one chinese city. authorities in kunming began searching out the copycats after pictures of one convincing replica were circulated on the web. an early search found five fake stores, two of which were shut down for trading without a licence. now, according to chinese trade officials, 22 have been found unlawfully using apple's brand and logo. the investigation into unauthorised apple stores in kunming was brought about when an american living in the city published a blog post describing a visit to one such shop. describing it as a "beautiful rip-off", birdabroad revealed how far the owners had gone to copy the decor and ambience of a real apple store. staff also wore the same colour t-shirts as real apple staffers, and sported lanyards of the same design. the blog post was widely shared around the world and prompted chinese trade officials in kunming to take action. the administration for industry and commerce in kunming said its investigation had unveiled a slew of stores violating apple's registered trademarks. image caption staff in the original fake shop believed they were working in a real apple store the shops have been told to stop using the logos as chinese laws prohibit copying the "look and feel" of another company without permission. it is not clear whether the shops being reprimanded were selling products sourced from apple distributors in the country or grey market imports. the kunming retail watchdog said it would step up its monitoring efforts and set up a hotline through which the public can report unauthorised apple shops they find. here's a great little collection of wicked character art created by disney animator minkyu lee, which shows us what the characters would look like in a disney animated film. lee worked on films such as the princess and the frog and frozen. these were created by the artist while studying at calarts and interning at disney. lee is a very talented artist and animator who also directed the oscar nominated short adam and dog, which you can watch here. you can read about the artist's thoughts on the importance of creating a visual development portfolio like this and how it came about on his website. i think wicked would make for a fantastic animated film at disney, but i believe universal pictures hold the rights, and they will be developing a live-action version of it. a brisbane magistrate has dismissed charges against four people accused of the 'satanic' vandalism of graves at toowong cemetery last year, in part because it could not be proven the group did not have permission to do so. zoe louise wilson, 24, benjamin lionel garland, 19, shane alan bell and michael john smallbon, both 27, walked free from brisbane magistrates court this afternoon following the decision. the foursome had been charged with the wilful damage of 82 graves at the historic cemetery in august last year. the court heard one of the group bragged about inverting crucifixes at the cemetery because it "had meaning to satanists". but following evidence from several witnesses at a committal hearing yesterday, lawyers for the four accused today argued their clients had no case to answer. the nfl will inform teams tuesday about tweaks to where the umpire will be stationed in the offensive backfield, the new york times reported. the adjustments are in response to a new rule that moved the umpire from the middle of the defense to 14 to 17 yards behind the offense for safety reasons. that was adjusted to 12 yards back after the hall of fame game so the ball could be spotted quicker. still, the rule drew criticism from indianapolis colts quarterback peyton manning, whose team was penalized twice for snapping the ball before the umpire was in position during a preseason game thursday. the latest tweaks, made after a conference call that included members of the league's competition committee, include requiring the umpire only to be standing behind the deepest member of the offense, and quarterbacks can look at officials near the sidelines to get the go-ahead to snap the ball, rather than turn around and look for a signal from the umpire. over 81,000 have been reported on railway tracks since 2012, was informed today. as many as 16,336 took place on railway tracks in 2012, while 19,997 were in 2013, minister of state for railways said in a written reply in number of reported in 2014 stood at 24,393, while it was 20,312 till the november this year. sinha admitted that there was a rise in the number of deaths on he said the railway system is spread over the length and breadth of the country and people get run over due to various reasons, including trespassing, violating safety and cautionary instructions, avoiding over bridges, using mobile phones and other gadgets while crossing railway tracks, falling from trains while travelling on foot-boards, steps or roofs of the trains. he said injured persons are promptly evacuated from the railway tracks. in respect of of injured persons in mid section, he said, the guard of the concerned train informs the station superintendent of the nearest station, who arranges for medical assistance to the injured besides informing the police. machover's opera tells the story of simon powers, a successful businessman seeking immortality through technology by downloading his mind and spirit into a computer program called the system. now, stay with us here, because his essence becomes incorporated into physical objects. robots line up on stage, representing each of the main characters of the show. during the prologue and epilogue, they also serve as a kind of greek chorus. they're all that is left on planet earth. once every year, they gather to remember and tell the story of simon powers, even though they have no real knowledge of human emotion. they are moved about by ipads and remote controls using cutting-edge software such as a position tracking system and 3-d visualization. with a libretto by former poet laureate robert pinsky, it's a new twist on old-age life-and-death questions, and newer ones about the role of technology. the leadwerks game player is now on greenlight. this is a standalone application any steam user can install for free. you can publish your lua games made in leadwerks to the game player, so other steam users can play your game. the recent winter games tournament has resulted in a lot of new games, many of which you can download and play right now, on linux and windows. the game player will allow free self-publishing of lua games to steam workshop. this will allow you to safely download and play games other steam users make, without any worries about viruses or malicious programs. if you're a game developer, leadwerks game player allows you to reach a broad audience and start building a fan base made up of your future customers. you can get feedback and communicate with fans on your own steam workshop page. leadwerks game player works with steamos, so you can use it to publish your own games to the living room and play on your steam machine game console. you can vote for the leadwerks game player on steam here. because medieval readers expected books to contain a combination of text and images, printers quickly began to incorporate woodcut images between blocks of text. this innovation eliminated the need for hand painting and saved both time and money while sustaining the text and illustration format that continued to be important during the renaissance. it is estimated that a third of all incunabula were illustrated, and images continued to be hand-colored into the 18th century. books printed on presses before the year 1501 are called incunabula , which comes from a word meaning "cradle" or "birthplace" in latin. although printing was certainly in its infancy prior to 1501, the actual printing process of using movable type on a wooden press did not change a great deal over the next 350 years. there were, however, changes made to the format of books, such as the addition of title pages where medieval scribes simply added their own name, the date of completion, and perhaps a small prayer to the end of their manuscripts. also, by the beginning of the 16th century, page numbers had made their appearance. tucker carlson: will someone somewhere make the obvious point that perhaps france is having these problems because it has the largest muslim population in europe as a result of its immigration policies? is it time to rethink immigration policies in europe and by the way also here in north america to pay attention to the country of origin? is it a good idea to let people from countries where a lot of violent islamism is rife come to this country? what do we get out of it? these are the kind of questions you might be hearing in coming days. diversity realists hope to hear those questions, at least. below, the totalitarian political ideology of islam makes muslims a poor choice to be immigrants to western nations. ella tromp and brother mitchell tromp at the family home in silvan, after their parents disappeared. ella tromp has been charged with stealing a car, a day after expressing relief her missing father mark tromp was found alive in wangaratta. victoria police has confirmed a 22-year-old silvan woman was charged with theft of a motor vehicle and possessing the proceeds of crime. it is alleged ella tromp stole a car in goulburn, new south wales, and drove it back to victoria after she split from her parents during a road trip. the mystery surrounding the family of five ended at the weekend when mark tromp was found running along a street in wangaratta. there has been little explanation about why the family left their silvan red currant farm on monday, but mitchell tromp said his parents were scared and thought they were being followed. on sunday, ella and mitchell tromp said the road trip and subsequent separation of the family was "a family matter". ella tromp returned to the family farm two days after the whole family of five left for new south wales and then split up. she told police she left her parents along with her elder sister riana tromp, 29, at a service station outside goulburn on tuesday. the sisters were later separated and ella tromp returned home alone. riana tromp and her mother coby tromp remain in hospital where they are being treated by health professionals. ella tromp has been bailed and will face the ringwood magistrates court in april. with bellamy beating peggy carter by the narrowest of margins in the last round, we have our final four contestants: bellamy blake, jamie fraser, alex danvers, and buffy summers. here's hoping for as an exciting semi-final round as we have had in the previous ones. the winners at this stage are always the fandoms that get the world out to the most people the quickest so spread the word for your champions. please don't forget to remind people to vote only once per poll though while you do. i appreciate everyone for making this a fair character cup and keeping the drama to the polls and not the voting process. thanks also to everyone who has been commenting in our tv talk topics, making it an awesome discussion. you have made this one of my favorite character cups. as for the prediction competition, noor continues to lead at 75 points with amber lacy right behind her at 74 points. should there be an upset now, it will break almost everyone in the top 10's brackets, including mine. should make for an interesting round! don't forget to vote in the mini-contest as well and as always, happy voting! special thanks to rendy for making this title card! today's tv talk topic: theme song mini-contest: it's a small world after all - over the years, the spoilertv community has discussed diversity a lot, mostly in the terms of race, gender, and sexual preference. however, with sesame street adding an autistic character, recently there has been a lot of discussion about the way tv portrays both physical and mental disabilities. how well do you think tv has been doing in showing the wide spectrum of abilities? which shows have done the best in this regard? which characters have been the best tv advocates? were there any shows that specifically addressed differently abled people when you were a kid? which types do you think need to be addressed more on tv? the well of ancient mysteries is across the street from our apartment. to look at it, it is a small piece of land with mango and banyan trees, tropical flowers, and a mural-decorated house surrounded by a 7-eleven, an empanada food truck, a metrorail station, and flashy high-rise buildings. a wood sign with the faded-paint words "the well of ancient mysteries" hangs on the property. i knew from the day we moved to miami there was a story there. i walked by it frequently on my way to the grocery for over a year before i tried to find out about the well. i eventually found an article from the miami herald. the article described the story of a sacred space and the man who protects it from development in our rapidly changing neighborhood. in the herald article, the owner of the property explains the well of ancient mysteries sits on an ancient site that has spiritual significance to the indigenous people of miami. as an anthropologist and activist, the owner refuses all offers to buy the property in order for him to protect the site. at least 32 people have died in a stampede at a hindu religious festival in bihar in northern india, officials say. many of those killed in the incident in the state capital of patna were women and children, bihar chief secretary anjani kumar singh told the bbc. he said 24 others were taken to the state hospital with injuries. the stampede broke out in patna's gandhi maidan, as celebrations for the festival of dussehra were being held. it is not yet clear what caused the incident, with reports suggesting it occurred in a narrow road as crowds dispersed from the outdoor venue. eyewitnesses quoted by india's ndtv say the stampede started after word spread through the crowd that an electrical wire had snapped off and fallen down. local journalist niraj sahay, who was at the scene, says an eyewitness told him that only one of the exits was opened for people to leave. the stampede started when some wires fell on the crowd, which people thought were electricity wires, he tells bbc hindi. hindu festivals in india are notorious for deadly stampedes, with large crowds often gathering in confined spaces. crowd control is sometimes poor, with casualties from stampedes in some cases running into hundreds, bbc south asia editor jill mcgivering says. in august 10 people were killed in another stampede at the hindu festival of somvati amavasya in central india. in october 2013 some 91 pilgrims, mostly women and children, were killed in a stampede at a hindu festival near the ratangarh temple in madhya pradesh state. with a success under its belt with the chromecast, google is officially renewing its assault on the living room with android tv. running atop android l, android tv will run on hardware a la google tv and set-top boxes like apple tv and roku and consoles, but with an added focus on gaming. today's announcement confirms details gleaned by the verge this past april. google tv, launched in 2010 with its apparent ambition to turn your television into a smartphone, is now firmly in the past. android tv is google's rekindled vision for your home's largest screen, and it's considerably sleeker and more in line with the competition's offerings. entertainment is paramount this time around, as the software surfaces content from the google play store and requisite partners like netflix and hulu, and provides recommendations based on what you watch. search is also baked into the experience, using google's knowledge graph to provide contextual information for your favorite programs. users can even control the software using an android wear watch, and, much like the chromecast, content can be sent from a separate device to android tv. mountain view is also bringing google play games to television, confirming an earlier report by the wall street journal. like the fire tv, devices will come with a controller, and gamers will be able to play multiplayer games online and earn achievements via the google play games network. in addition, google is working with hardware oems like sony and sharp to design tvs slated for 2015, and razer and asus to develop the set-top boxes with a focus on gaming. san francisco is considering legislation that would put the brakes on delivery robots rolling across the city's sidewalks. the robots, once confined to sci-fi movies, have rolled into real-world testing. but they would be banned from san francisco streets under legislation supervisor norman yee introduced on tuesday. he told the san francisco chronicle that he initially considered regulating the robots but soon concluded rules would be unenforceable. "i want to keep our sidewalks safe for people," yee said. "seniors, children, people with disabilities can't maneuver quickly" to avoid robots, he told the san francisco chronicle. food delivery startup marble already has a handful of robots delivering orders to the mission and potrero hill neighborhoods of san francisco. the robots stand just over 4 feet tall and are built on top of an electric wheelchair base. their cargo bays can hold up to four grocery bags at a time. it uses various sensors, including lidar, or light detection and ranging technology like that used in self-driving cars, to help it navigate city sidewalks. the robot rolls along at a leisurely walking pace of 3 to 4 miles per hour. marble ceo told the chronicle that safety was a top priority. "we look forward to working with the supervisors, neighborhood groups and others to craft smart regulation that balances the needs of pedestrian safety, local businesses, manufacturing and innovation," he said in a statement. cnet magazine: check out a sampling of the stories you'll find in cnet's newsstand edition. technically literate: original works of short fiction with unique perspectives on tech, exclusively on cnet. how much traffic does your website receive from twitter? twitter web analytics, a new tool announced tuesday, should help provide some clarity to website owners who rely on the information network for content distribution. twitter web analytics is intended to give website owners more data on the effectiveness of their twitter integrations. it's powered by backtype, the social analytics company that twitter acquired in july. twitter web analytics, explains backtype founder and new twitter platform staffer christopher golda, will help publishers and website owners understand three key things: how much of their content is being shared on twitter, how much traffic twitter is sending their way and how well tweet buttons are performing. the tool is free and currently in beta. a small group of partners will gain access to twitter web analytics this week, and twitter will roll it out to all website owners in a few weeks. an api will also be released for developers. a retailer has airlifted supplies of food to shetland because the usual ferries and freight boats have been disrupted by the weather. there have been no sailings to or from the islands for two days due to strong winds and high seas. operator serco northlink said it was unlikely anything would now move until christmas eve at the earliest. tesco said islanders had stripped shelves bare of produce. the firm chartered the plane to help restock. the hercules transporter flew from norway to edinburgh. it was packed with food overnight and it then flew to shetland on saturday afternoon. department for transport restrictions were lifted to allow the flight to take off from edinburgh airport at short notice, due to the nature of the situation on shetland. a further hercules delivery of supplies was due to take place on saturday evening. arlington, texas -- the 1996 slaying of a north texas girl that led to the amber alert notification system to find missing children remains unsolved. arlington police on tuesday repeated their request for tips in finding the killer of 9-year-old amber hagerman. amber's mother, donna williams, also appealed for justice for her daughter. wednesday is the 20th anniversary since amber was abducted while riding her bicycle in arlington. her body was found four days later in a drainage ditch. the child's throat had been cut. radio and tv stations in the dallas-fort worth area joined forces to broadcast alerts to help find amber. that led to creation of a voluntary child abduction advisory system nationwide known simply as the amber alert. since 1996, the alert system has contributed to the safe return of 794 children who had been reported missing, according to statistics posted on social media accounts for the national center for missing and exploited children. wednesday is amber alert awareness day in texas. ac milan manager filippo inzaghi will be sacked this week after just a year in charge. the serie a side told bbc sport that inzaghi, 41, will "not be in charge of the team next season". the rossoneri finished 10th in the league this season as they failed to qualify for the champions league. carlo ancelotti has turned down the chance to return to his former club while ex-sampdoria boss sinisa mihajlovic is favourite for the job. milan said they were still "looking to find a new coach" and an official announcement is expected on friday. mihajlovic, 46, said on monday that he was leaving sampdoria after guiding the genoa club to seventh, with former goalkeeper walter zenga reported to be in talks to take over. ancelotti, 55, who was sacked by real madrid, had held talks with milan chief executive adriano galliani but said he needed a "rest" after two seasons in charge at the bernabeu. under former italy striker inzaghi, milan had their worst league finish in 17 years. halo's multiplayer formula has always been a magical one. the two-weapon limit and near-flawless balance of guns, grenades, and melee attacks underpin the whole thing, but it's the unique vehicles combined with an arsenal of weapons that each have their purpose and place that make halo one of the world's best multiplayer destinations. halo 4 breathed fresh life into the veteran series by adding an upgrade system, loadouts, and, yes, perks. are these borrowed from call of duty? sure, but they're all applied with a deft halo touch, ensuring that halo 4 multiplayer still feels like halo. add in a solid collection of maps--something reach forgot about--along with the series' continued unparalleled social and matchmaking options, and halo 4 is the game we can't stop playing each night. an umpire at a cricket match in the israeli city of ashdod has died after being hit by a ball. a batsman's shot struck hillel oscar in the neck, possibly after a ricochet from the stumps at his end of the pitch. the incident comes just two days after australian batsman phillip hughes died of a head injury caused by being struck by a ball at a match in sydney. umpires in cricket, unlike some players, do not wear helmets. however, such incidents are extremely rare. an umpire at a match in wales died five years ago after a ball thrown by a fielder hit him on the head. shock and sorrow mr oscar was the former captain of the israeli national cricket team. he was taken to a city hospital, but medics were unable to revive him. saturday's match was the last in israel's league season. correspondents say cricket is not a popular sport in israel, though there is an amateur league largely populated by players from countries such as india, south africa, australia and new zealand. the incident took place amid sorrow and shock in the cricketing world. on thursday, australian test cricketer hughes died of his injuries, two days after being struck on the neck by a bouncer in an australian league game. his funeral is due to be held on wednesday. an intense battle for control of palmyra in syria has reportedly been swinging back and forth between government forces and isil fighters. moscow said its airstrikes had helped force the hardline islamists out of the ancient city overnight. the russian defence ministry its jets carried out 64 sorties during the operation, killing more than 300 militants. however, a news agency linked to so called islamic state claims the militants are now back in control of palmyra after briefly retreating. that account was backed up by the british-based syrian observatory for human rights, which monitors the conflict. isil launched a surprise offensive on the unesco world heritage site last week seizing nearby oil and gas fields. the syrian army is believed to have sent reinforcements to palmyra which isil first took in may 2015 until they were eventually kicked out in march this year. crown prosecutor margaret cunneen will not be charged over allegations raised by the independent commission against corruption, the attorney-general has been advised. in a blow to the icac, nsw solicitor-general michael sexton, sc, said in a statement on friday he had considered the advice of the victorian chief crown prosecutor in forming the view no prosecution should be brought. the corruption watchdog had referred evidence to the nsw director of public prosecutions after its inquiry into ms cunneen, sc, her son stephen wyllie and his girlfriend sophia tilley was aborted by the high court, which found the watchdog was acting outside its statutory powers. the commission said the evidence related to allegations the trio had been involved in an attempt to pervert the course of justice after a car accident in may last year, and had provided "false evidence" to the watchdog. friday marked the final chapter for four veterans whose bodies laid in the shawnee co. morgue for months - until a state veterans group stepped in - and have now all been buried with honors at leavenworth national cemetery. on a very cold 9 degree day, including wind chill, veterans groups and community members stood outside in that wind and snow to pay their last respects to these veterans. last december, we learned five veterans had been in the shawnee co. morgue for quite some time, unclaimed and forgotten by their families and contacted the state commission for veterans affairs. as a result, vietnam veterans clarke paul gould and robert lee norris as well as fellow veterans ramsey phillips and james allen young were buried with military honors at leavenworth national cemetery. once the commission on veterans affairs was alerted to the unclaimed veterans, the agency worked with shawnee co. and penwell gabel funeral home to have the veterans prepared for burial and buried with the honors they deserve. last week, judge lucy koh informed apple and samsung that they would have to reduce the number of patent claims at issue in the parties' northern district of california litigation. and now, each has complied, with samsung dropping its total number of asserted patent claims from 75 to 15, while dismissing two patents from the case altogether. for its part, apple has reduced its case to one claim from each of its asserted utility patents, its four iphone and one ipad design patents, and its trade dress claims for those two devices. keep in mind, however, that they did so without prejudice, which means that either party can reassert these dismissed claims in a later lawsuit. that said, the parties have at least attempted to placate judge koh in order to keep their july 30th trial date, which is when the real legal fireworks begin. feel free to check the filings below for the full scope of this most recent patent pruning. a bill that would require labels on food products containing ingredients from genetically modified crops has passed a hurdle in the new york assembly. the measure was endorsed tuesday by the assembly's consumer affairs and protection committee. a vote of the full assembly has not been scheduled. supporters say labels would inform the public. many agricultural and food companies disagree, however, noting that there's no scientific evidence that genetically engineered food is harmful. the bill would apply to genetically modified fruits, vegetables and processed foods as well as items that contain ingredients like oil or sugar that are derived from genetically engineered crops. vermont has already adopted a labeling law. maine and connecticut have too, but the requirement in those states won't take effect until other states follow suit. a baby was killed and several more people seriously injured when a family of 11 threw themselves from a third-floor flat to flee a man they mistook for the devil, french investigators said. the bizarre tragedy came to light on saturday when firefighters were called to the village of la verriere on the outskirts of paris following reports that several people had jumped from a balcony in a welfare housing block. among the injured they found an entirely naked man of african origin with a knife wound in his hand and two children, a baby and a two-year-old girl. the baby died later after receiving hospital treatment in paris. the assistant prosecutor from versailles, odile faivre, told reporters the incident began in the early hours when a group of 13 people were watching television in an apartment and the naked man heard the baby cry. "the man got up to prepare a bottle for the baby when his wife, seeing him, screamed 'it's the devil, it's the devil'," faivre explained. devastation wrought by an earlier bombardment of khuza'a, a small farming town less than half-a-mile from gaza's south-eastern border with israel, is plain to see. a furious assault that residents say began on july 20 levelled much of khuza'a - leaving whole streets flattened, once-grand mosque domes reduced to ground level and the local council's "bon voyage khusa'a" sign lying crumpled in bits like an unfortunate joke at the town entrance. one man recalled counting 360 shell attacks in a single hour. most of the town's 14,000 inhabitants fled in three separate phases, with returning survivors describing how the town, a few miles north of rafah, came under fire from all directions. as the israeli army mostly held its fire during a seven-hour "humanitarian window" on monday, it continued its bombardment of the south-eastern city of rafah, where unconfirmed reports suggested a british aid worker had been killed on sunday. one factor that has attracted criticism in recent years is the length of time it takes for lapped cars to unlap themselves and join up with the back of the field. in some cases, it has taken several laps for the backmarkers to catch up and allow f1 race director charlie whiting to restart the race. the matter has now been tabled for discussion at a sporting regulations working group meeting at the brazilian grand prix to try to come up with a better solution. sources have suggested that one idea that will be looked at is that rather than the lapped cars unlapping themselves, they simply drop back to the rear of the field instead. they will then be credited with an extra lap so they are not put at a disadvantage. by having this system in place, it would be straightforward to restart the race within a single lap of the instruction being given, which should minimise delays in bringing the safety car in. other items due to be discussed are revisions to f1's engine penalty rules, whether the current five-second penalty for driving offences is too lenient, whether current cars can be used in show events and if there should be changes to parc ferme restrictions. any time a game appears on the steam apps database, it's a good idea to treat it with a healthy amount of scepticism . the same holds true of the walking dead: 400 days , a dlc listing for telltale's excellent zombie adventure. blanket warning aside, though, there's plenty of evidence to suggest that there's some truth to this rumour. it would, for instance, explain the mysterious vine teasers that have been appearing on the telltale twitter account . four have been released so far, each showing names and photographs being posted to a noticeboard. the titles are day 2 , day 220 , day 184 and day 236 . telltale have previously mentioned that interim content would separate seasons one and two of the walking dead. given that telltale will be at e3, there's every chance we'll be hearing something official soon. here's the most recent teaser vine: thanks, ign . us authorities have charged a chinese businessman with hacking into the computer systems of boeing and other firms with large defence contracts. su bin, who was arrested in canada last month, is accused of working with two other suspects to steal data about military projects and sell it to china. prosecutors said mr su was targeting information about fighter jets, military cargo aircraft and weapons. a 2013 us report identified industrial spying from china as a growing threat. there has been no specific allegation of involvement by the chinese government in mr su's case, but the us has accused china of systematically stealing american high-tech data for its national gain. the us department of justice recently indicted five chinese military officers for hacking into us businesses - charges dismissed by china as a fabrication. 'economic espionage' mr su reportedly runs a chinese aviation technology company with an office in canada. he was detained on 28 june while trying to gain canadian citizenship, us authorities said. they allege that he and his co-conspirators have been trying to sell the stolen data to state-owned firms in china. the justice department said it "remained deeply concerned about cyber-enabled theft of sensitive information". "we have repeatedly made it clear that the united states will continue using all the tools our government possesses to strengthen cyber-security and confront cyber-crime," spokesman marc raimondi said. boeing released a statement saying it was co-operating with the us authorities to hold accountable "individuals who perpetrate economic espionage or trade secret theft against us companies". mr su is scheduled to appear in court for a bail hearing next week. check out this amazing video put out by black diamond on adam ondra's year so far. everyone knows who adam is and what he can do, but what i think amazes me the most is his ability to objectively break down his climbing strengths and weaknesses. his matter-of-fact discussion of his redpoint of realization is something that is rare to see, an athlete who can analyze himself as if he were a coach discussing one of his players. the other thing that makes adam standout is his ability to excel at all types of climbing, at the same time. sharma dominated bouldering when he focused on it, but then switched his focus and was the top sport climber for years. adam is doing that all at the same time. can't wait to see what the next year brings from him. opentraffic is a global data platform to process anonymous positions of vehicles and smartphones into real-time and historical traffic statistics. we're building this in the open, using fully open-source software , with involvement from a growing list of partners . get involved we are working with vehicle fleet operators, app developers, and governments to develop and operate the opentraffic platform. learn how you can contribute and benefit: do you collect traffic or location data? join our community of data contributors sharing anonymized traffic statistics. you'll benefit from combining your data with sources to create a more complete and current data set. in addition to using this data in your own applications you'll be improving the global data pool and help improve transport outcomes in your community. contact us do you need traffic data for your application? historical and real-time travel speeds will enable accurate routing, estimated time of arrival and other transport analysis and planning applications. follow the development of the opentraffic platform, and we'll let you know as apis and data extracts become available. sign up for our newsletter do you need traffic data for your city? use traffic data to help inform transportation planning decisions in your community. opentraffic's analysis applications will allow users to query real-time and historical traffic conditions and monitor roadway conditions. sign up for our newsletter, and we'll let you know as these tools become available for wider testing. sign up for our newsletter about opentraffic opentraffic, forming as a nonprofit organization, is coordinating open source software development and data collection by individuals and organizations across the transport sector. founding members and partners special thanks to ben richardson for the generous donation of the project domain name. he says the plan to cut taxes without raising new sources of revenue appears to assume that those tax cuts will be funded by future surpluses. but the likelihood of reaching surplus by 2018-19 looks "extremely unlikely," he says, and the only other way for the government to cut taxes without worsening its budget deficit would be to cut even more state funding for hospitals and schools. "the test for tax cuts should be not that we might be in surplus some time in the distant future but that we are in surplus in the current budget year," mr daley told fairfax media. "the government could fund more tax cuts now if they took existing commonwealth transfers for schools and hospitals and cut them further and then told the states: 'you figure it out', but that's not called leadership. "that's called taking cost-shifting to a whole new level," he said. let us take a break from the nerve-wracking doomsday headlines for just a moment and wrap our arms around some good news breaking in our own backyard. because we all need a deep breath right about now. and what a cleansing breath it is: top ten records, the oft-overlooked oak cliff landmark flirting of late with obsolescence, will keep its doors open after all despite widely circulating rumors to the contrary. and it will do so with new operators adored for having resurrected a neighboring jefferson boulevard icon, the texas theatre, which was also once feared a goner in a town that tends to swallow its history. which is not just big news, but a welcome relief after the block encompassing top ten was bought a few weeks ago by investors snapping up properties in resurgent neighborhoods. a court in germany has ruled that circumcising young boys for religious reasons amounts to bodily harm. in a decision that has caused outrage among jewish and muslim groups, the court said that a child's right to physical integrity trumps religious and parental rights. the case involved a doctor who carried out a circumcision on a four year-old that led to medical complications. thousands of muslim and jewish boys are circumcised in germany every year. although male circumcision - unlike female circumcision - is not illegal in germany, the court's judgement said the "fundamental right of the child to bodily integrity outweighed the fundamental rights of the parents". circumcision, it decided, contravenes "interests of the child to decide later in life on his religious beliefs". 'protect religious freedom' the doctor involved in the case was acquitted and the ruling is not binding, but correspondents say it sets a precedent that would be taken into account by other german courts. the president of germany's central council of jews, dieter graumann, called it "an unprecedented and dramatic intervention in the right of religious communities to self-determination". he urged the country's parliament to clarify the legal situation "to protect religious freedom against attacks". male circumcision is part of the ancient religious rituals of both the jewish and muslim faiths, as well as the traditions of some tribal groups. in some countries, such as the united states, it is also not uncommon for parents to request that young boys are circumcised for health reasons. the bbc's stephen evans in germany says it is unclear what the next legal step will be, but this issue is a moral and political minefield. in this country, the conventional "wisdom" is that trump doesn't have a chance, but this morning's quinnipiac poll has him ahead of clinton in the only places that count, swing states florida and pennsylvania, and tied in ohio. add in the fringe candidates and trump leads in all three states. don't expect the media to take this story very seriously, though, just as they didn't believe trump had a chance at the republican nomination until way after he already had it in the bag. trump is our brexit, you might say. there's a very real possibility that come november, dimon and clinton, despite their tiny, sanctimonious and self-congratulatory attempts to bribe the working class with wage raises, will find themselves right where david cameron and the uk banking establishment landed a few weeks ago. the former head of colombia's secret police, maria del pilar hurtado, has been found guilty of spying on politicians, judges and journalists. the supreme court said hurtado's sentence would be announced in 15 days. those targeted in the spying, which occurred between 2007 and 2008, were all political opponents of alvaro uribe, who was president at the time. his former chief of staff has also been convicted but mr uribe denies any knowledge of the illegal intercepts. both hurtado and mr uribe's former chief of staff, bernardo moreno, face more than 10 years in jail. all nine supreme court justices, none of whom were among those targeted in the spying, voted in favour of the convictions. moreno will remain free on bail until he is sentenced, but hurtado is being held in prison. she fled colombia in 2010 after mr uribe left office and the allegations were made public. she was granted asylum in panama but turned herself over to the authorities last month after her asylum was revoked. mr uribe, who was in office between 2002 and 2010, is now a senator in the opposition to president juan manuel santos. his former agriculture minister has also been convicted of corruption and several of his former officials are being investigated over similar claims. melbourne researchers have discovered the immune system's "kill switch" that destroys blood stem cells when the body is fighting infection or chemotherapy. walter and eliza hall institute of medical research scientists say the findings could lead to treatments for the life-threatening condition of sepsis and could help recovery from chemotherapy. the body has a protective mechanism that instructs the immune system and blood stem cells to die when it senses infection. but the team found this can go too far, particularly in cancer patients with infections and those with sepsis. the findings, published in the journal immunity, shows this abnormal response to infection can cause too many stem cells to die until the patient can't recover their immunity, putting their life in danger. by blocking these signals, the researchers stopped the blood stem cells from self-destructing, stopped cell death after chemotherapy and boosted recovery from infection. cctv footage showing schoolchildren narrowly avoiding being hit by a motorbike that smashed into a car at a brisbane intersection has been released by police. the incident took place last thursday around 3:20pm in lutwyche, in brisbane's north. the video shows two motorbikes travelling southbound along gympie road onto lutwyche road when one of the bikes goes through the intersection of kedron park road and collides with a car. four schoolchildren on a pedestrian crossing are almost hit as the motorbike and rider skid past. the 23-year-old male motorbike rider suffered serious leg injuries and is in the royal brisbane and women's hospital in a stable condition. police released the video in an appeal for witnesses who may have other footage of the crash or who were on the pedestrian crossing at the time to contact them. a queensland police service spokesperson said the footage was "a bit of a warning for people to be careful". anyone with information that could assist police should contact crime stoppers on 1800 333 000 or via the website. newport news -- newport news shipbuilding moved the former uss enterprise to a different area of the yard wednesday to continue work on its inactivation and eventual towing out of hampton roads. tugboats guided the world's first nuclear-powered carrier from a dry dock to pier 2, said company spokeswoman christie miller. shipbuilders have completed all dry dock-related work, and moving it to the pier will allow the shipyard to complete the remaining tasks involved with inactivation. that includes closing compartments and preparation work related to dismantling and towing, miller said. the move has an added benefit: it frees up the dry dock for arrival of the uss george washington, which is due in newport news later this year to begin its mid-life overhaul. the enterprise, one of the country's most storied ships, is destined for recycling, but the navy hasn't settled on a final plan. nuclear-powered warships currently go to their final resting place at puget sound naval shipyard and intermediate maintenance facility in washington state. however, the navy has considered alternatives for the enterprise. in august 2016, it requested proposals from private industry on recycling the ship. but the navy announced in february that it had canceled the proposal and had not decided on a preferred approach. it will place the ship in temporary storage until a decision is reached. there has been no word on a temporary storage location or when the navy will settle on a plan. naval sea systems command is still gathering information, spokesman bill couch said wednesday. the ship, designed and manufactured at the newport news shipyard, was decommissioned in february, formally ending more than 50 years of service to the country. a look at the decline of uk wildlife. there is more at stake than simply protecting the beauty of nature - our food supply could be under threat. how would you feel about a world where the seas were almost empty, the skies silent of wildlife, and there weren't even enough bugs to pollinate our crops? that's a vision of britain predicted by some if our rich mixture of wildlife continues to shrink - from butterflies and bumblebees to skylarks and red squirrels. so far in 2010 the uk has missed two international targets aimed at halting the decline in some of our best-loved native species. as panorama finds, there's more at stake than simply protecting the beauty of nature - the future of our food supply could be under threat. tim farrar, a satellite communications consultant in menlo park, california, one of a group of satellite experts who have been conducting their own independent analysis of clues to the final resting place of flight 370, expressed surprise that the search area had not been moved even farther south-west. the plane disappeared march 8 with 239 people aboard during a flight from kuala lumpur, malaysia, to beijing. the new location is consistent with the plane having travelled south at a speed of about 380 knots after it disappeared from malaysian radar while over the northern end of the strait of malacca, farrar said. the area of the sea floor that was checked in april and may, after us navy contractors thought they had heard acoustic pings from the aircraft's "black boxes," was consistent with a plane limping along at only 325 knots. but mr farrar said that the group of independent experts with whom he was working had assumed a speed of 460 to 470 knots. "we are unclear about why they are driving to a relatively slower solution," he said. two possible explanations are that the authorities believe the plane travelled farther west before turning south, or that the plane did not follow a straight path on its trip south, mr farrar said. the australian government has said that it will announce the new search area by the end of this month. education in indian culture and tradition was aimed at its refinement and it would be wrong to term it as 'saffronisation', karnataka governor vajubhai rudabhai vala has said. "some people deem education in indian culture and refinement as saffronisation. irrespective of these objections, we should ensure that important aspects of our culture and refinement are included in education. we are committed to continue with this task," vala said. inaugurating the centenary celebrations of vivekananda degree and pre-university college at puttur near here on wednesday, vala said the country needs to carry forward the education and cultural refinement inherited by us from our forefathers to the next generation. he said it was imperative to impart the teachings of renowned spiritual leaders like shankaracharya, bhagawan mahaveer and buddha to the new generation and nobody could brand it as saffronisation. the governor, on the occasion, commended the contributions of vivekananda college which has provided education to more than 30,000 students so far. til death do us part? the vow would really hold true in california if a sacramento web designer gets his way. in a movement that seems ripped from the pages of comedy channel writers, john marcotte wants to put a measure on the ballot next year to ban divorce in california. the 2010 california marriage protection act is meant to be a satirical statement after california voters outlawed gay marriage in 2008, largely on the argument that a ban is needed to protect the sanctity of traditional marriage. if that's the case, then marcotte reasons voters should have no problem banning divorce. "since california has decided to protect traditional marriage, i think it would be hypocritical of us not to sacrifice some of our own rights to protect traditional marriage even more," the 38-year-old married father of two said. a british man accused of hacking into us government computer networks has been re-arrested by police in the uk. lauri love, 30, of stradishall in suffolk, faces charges in the us of hacking into agencies including the us army, nasa and the us federal reserve. the met police executed an extradition warrant, on behalf of the us, at his house on ash walk on wednesday. he appeared at westminster magistrates' court and was bailed until his next hearing on 1 september. image caption mr love is accused of being involved in hacking computers, including those of the us federal reserve mr love was first arrested in 2013 and had computer equipment seized by british police who then released him on bail. his solicitor karen todner said his bail was cancelled over a year ago with no further action having been taken at that time. mr love had begun legal proceedings to get his computer equipment returned by the uk's national crime agency. twenty-five of 31 items - including laptops, computer towers, memory sticks and hard drives - were given back to him before a court hearing and he withdrew his action. ms todner said his re-arrest came "out of the blue" and he would be fighting extradition. in response to the widely publicized complaints from tv viewers and broadcasters of the 2010 fifa world cup, waves is proud to unveil a solution which dramatically reduces the problematic sound of the omnipresent vuvuzela trumpet favored by south african soccer fans. working in conjunction with a major television broadcaster, we've precision-crafted a preset processing chain which drastically decreases vuvuzela noise: the wns waves noise suppressor and the q10 equalizer. together, they not only minimize vuvuzela noise, they increase the intelligibility of the game announcers' play-by-play action and color commentary. the processing chain for vuvuzela noise reduction is now available as load-and-use sessions for pro tools, waves multirack, and cubase. wns waves noise suppressor is a real-time noise reduction plugin which is unsurpassed for noise suppression in both indoor and outdoor environments with constant or modulating noise. originally engineered for reducing noise from dialogue in film and video, wns has since proven itself invaluable as a broadcast tool. wns waves noise suppressor q10 equalizer delivers precision equalization in any audio situation: broadcast, recording, mixing, mastering, and more. with power and features that far surpass the capabilities of analog gear, the q10 lets you create spectral modifications that range from subtle to extreme. q10 equalizer how it works a combination of dynamic broadband noise suppression and notch filtering are utilized to create the vuvuzela noise reduction processing chain. routing schemes and parameter settings were painstakingly adjusted, contrasted and, compared; multiple instances of each plugin, with different settings, were ultimately used to achieve optimal results. an american member of al-qaeda has been identified and located in a hostile nation, and according to a new report by the associated press, the obama administration is struggling with the legal implications of killing him. according to the report, the cia has determined the suspect is actively plotting attacks in a nation that refuses us military action on its soil, but is waiting on a justice department review before taking any action. the pentagon has already approved the use of lethal force. the idea of a drone strike on an american citizen has faced challenges before, both from congress and from federal judges, under claims that the program would circumvent the constitutional right to due process. in may, the president issued new oversight for drone strikes and a higher standard for the use of lethal force, both of which will be tested in the current case. the case also mirrors a 2009 strike against cleric anwar al-awlaki, the only previous american citizen to have been targeted and killed by drone strike. seattle fiestas patrias commemorates the independence of latin american countries, many of which celebrate their national independence day in the month of september. sea mar community health center festivals are held at both seattle center and the south park neighborhood of seattle to celebrate the latino community living in the pacific northwest. fiestas patrias is an expression of latino culture: music, dance, food, folklore and many other traditions that have accumulated over the centuries. this is a fiesta to celebrate our history while taking pride in the new generations of latinos that now call the united states home. sea mar seattle fiestas patrias festivals are always celebrated during one weekend in mid-september. on saturday, sea mar hosts its traditional parade and community festival in south park. on saturday and sunday, attendees can also find music, dance, food, art exhibitions, health fair and more at the seattle center. for related articles and more information, please visit oca's genetic engineering page, and our millions against monsanto page. the scientists have successfully introduced human genes into 300 dairy cows to produce milk with the same properties as human breast milk. human milk contains high quantities of key nutrients that can help to boost the immune system of babies and reduce the risk of infections. the scientists behind the research believe milk from herds of genetically modified cows could provide an alternative to human breast milk and formula milk for babies, which is often criticised as being an inferior substitute. they hope genetically modified dairy products from herds of similar cows could be sold in supermarkets. the research has the backing of a major biotechnology company. the work is likely to inflame opposition to gm foods. critics of the technology and animal welfare groups reacted angrily to the research, questioning the safety of milk from genetically modified animals and its effect on the cattle's health. more than a dozen canadian officials have been barred from ever entering russia in response to sanctions imposed over moscow's annexation of crimea. aides to canadian pm stephen harper and members of parliament were among those targeted by the retaliatory sanctions. russia's foreign ministry blamed its move on "unacceptable action by the canadian side that has inflicted serious damage to bilateral relations". mr harper himself visited ukraine on saturday, and spoke out against russia. he called for a "complete reversal" of crimea's annexation and recommended russia's removal from the group of eight nations. andrew scheer, the house of commons speaker, peter van loan, the government leader in the house, and other canadian lawmakers are on the russian blacklist. moscow annexed crimea this month after a referendum that ukraine and the west considered illegal. the us and eu have responded with a series of sanctions targeting individuals, including senior officials, whom they accuse of involvement in crimea's annexation. first home buyers would be able to withdraw money from superannuation for a deposit on the condition they put it back later and save more quickly for deposits by having their pay directed into superannuation-like accounts under proposals being considered for next tuesday's budget. scott morrison and malcolm turnbull's second budget is set to forecast a surplus in 2020-21 using a new measure of budget balance called "net operating balance" that will exclude extra spending on infrastructure, however australia's preeminent budget forecaster questions this, saying it won't return to surplus for the foreseeable future. deloitte access economics, the so-called "treasury in exile" run by former budget official chris richardson, says that forecast looks doubtful because it assumes tens of billions of dollars of cuts in projected grants to the states will stay in place and that the senate will pass cuts it has shown no interest in passing. "the budget simply won't whirr back into surplus," he said ahead of the publication of the deloitte access budget monitor on monday. professional photographer shane spencer was on his way home to eagle river on the glenn highway monday morning after a photo shoot. "it was raining cats and dogs," he said. he had his gear handy when a brown bear crossed the highway in front of his car. the bear was "really, really excited as it came out of the woods" east of the northbound lanes, he said. it was on the eagle river side of the hiland road exit. the bear darted around on the side of the highway before deciding to cross, he said. vehicles had enough warning to come to a complete stop on the freeway, he said. spencer said around a half-dozen drivers stopped for the bear and many more would have had occupants who could have seen the animal. vehicles in the southbound lanes stopped as well, he said. the bear paused in the median before crossing the other lanes, he said. melbourne's tram network is in for a change of direction, with three routes set to be diverted to new destinations, one route scaled back and another scrapped completely. the planned tram overhaul was originally scheduled for april, in sync with the opening of the regional rail link, but has been delayed until at least june while the andrews government considers its first revamp of public transport timetables. tram model d2 5001 credit:chris hopkins the plans, leaked to fairfax media, reveal that some of the most overcrowded tram routes in melbourne have been targeted for change and in the case of route 8 between moreland and toorak, permanent discontinuation. route 8 is statistically one of the city's most overburdened tram routes. in may it recorded load breaches, in which trams are more than 100 per cent full, right across the morning peak and for most of the evening peak. the serie a match between ac milan and roma on sunday was halted because of racist chanting inside the san siro. play was stopped for about two minutes at the beginning of the second half after chants aimed at milan's black players from the visiting supporters. roma captain francesco totti, who had complained to the referee about the chants, then went to speak to the fans. an announcement was made ordering the chants to cease before play resumed, with the game going on to end goalless. media playback is not supported on this device sack racist players - boateng former manchester city striker mario balotelli and kevin-prince boateng were part of the milan team. a friendly between milan and pro patria in january was suspended because of racist chants aimed at boateng. following that incident, the italian football federation introduced new rules to help referees deal with racist behaviour. officials can stop play and ask for stadium announcements to be made. should any such announcements fail to have an effect on offenders, match and stadium officials are authorised to abandon the game. in march, fifa announced the formation of a new taskforce designed to tackle discrimination in the game. boateng, english referee howard webb and football association chief executive david bernstein are all members. a state representative faced a strong rebuke from the speaker of the house after she dropped her loaded handgun while entering a house education committee hearing thursday. milford republican carolyn halstead apologized for the incident, in which her gun fell to the floor, but did not fire. she says it came loose from her waistband while she removed her backpack. halstead was entering a crowded public hearing for a bill to increase funding for full-day kindergarten programs. there were some children in the room, but the incident appeared to go unnoticed by most of those in attendance. halstead says she has a concealed carry license and the gun's safety lock was on. in a statement, house speaker shawn jasper said he spoke to halstead about the incident and called her lack of control unacceptable. lawmakers and members of the public are allowed to have guns in the statehouse and legislative offices. horns247 has learned that texas coach charlie strong has told two texas assistant coaches that they would not be retained for the 2015 season. bruce chambers, the only remaining staff holdover from the mack brown era, was told that he would no longer coach for the longhorns. chambers came to texas in december 1997 as part of brown's initial staff. he most recently coached tight ends for the longhorns. les koenning, the team's wide receivers coach, was also let go. koenning, a former texas player and all-swc receiver, came to texas last season after most recently serving as offensive coordinator for mississippi state. several names will be mentioned as potential replacements for chambers and koenning. those names include former texas tight end derek lewis, who is currently the tight end coach at florida, and oklahoma tight ends and special teams coach jay boulware. boulware played offensive tackle for texas under john mackovic and is originally from irving. for the receivers coach position, a name to watch is ron dugans. dugans played at florida state and coached for strong and offensive coordinator shawn watson at louisville. dugans spent the 2014 season as the receivers coach at south florida. a teenager shot overnight in east nashville might have lied about what happened, police said. metro nashville police found the victim with a gunshot wound to his leg in the 300 block of south 4th street just before midnight. the 18-year-old was taken to vanderbilt university medical center where he's expected to recover. police said the teen claimed to have been an innocent bystander and that he didn't know who shot him. but detectives said his story didn't line up with some of the evidence. no charges have been filed in this case. this was the third shooting in that east nashville neighborhood this weekend. two people were shot just blocks away saturday morning in what officers called a possible drug-related shooting. detectives said they also received conflicting information in that case. two tugs have been sent to stabilise the shen neng 1, which became stuck on douglas shoal, 43 miles east of great keppel island off the queensland coast, on saturday. authorities have warned that it could take weeks to remove the ship and that moving the vessel would be "a very delicate" operation that risked sending hundreds of tonnes of oil onto the reef. oil leaking from the coal carrier has already caused a two mile-long slick on the surface of the ocean but the flow of oil has slowed. however, there are concerns that the ship could break up in the three-metre swell and that the constant shifting of the vessel in strong winds was grinding up the reef below it. anna bligh, the premier of queensland, said that the cost of salvaging the ship and cleaning up the spill, will be sent to its owners, cosco group. the shen neng 1, which is carrying 975 tonnes of heavy fuel oil and 65,000 tonnes of coal, was more than 15 miles wide of its designated shipping lane, and travelling at full speed, when it slammed into the reef. patrick quirk, the general manager of maritime safety queensland, said an initial damage report showed that the main engine room was breached, the main engine damaged and the rudder seriously damaged. "one of the most worrying aspects is that the ship is still moving on the reef to the action of the seas, which is doing further damage," he said. planes had been used to spray dispersant over the two-tonne oil slick, which was contained in two patches, he said. however, a white ribbon of damaged coral could be seen stretching for several miles away from the ship. conservationists have demanded tighter controls on the thousands of ships that pass close to the reef every year. douglas shoal is off-limits to commercial vessels because it is within the great barrier reef marine park. the shen neng 1's presence in the restricted zone will be the subject of an investigation by the australian transport safety bureau. nsw is one step closer to a vote on legalising same-sex marriage, with mps from across the political spectrum giving the first official notice of new legislation. a cross-party working group of mps from the coalition, labor, the greens and an independent have been working on a bill which would allow gay and lesbian couples to marry in this state, following the failure of three federal same-sex marriage bills earlier this year. premier barry o'farrell has already confirmed liberal mps will be allowed a conscience vote on the bill when it comes before parliament next year, with deputy premier andrew stoner promising the same for the nationals. labor mps will also be allowed a conscience vote. notice will be given of the bill by several mps in the upper house on tuesday. "the co-operative approach being taken here in nsw really shows up tony abbott and julia gillard for their recalcitrance on marriage equality," said greens mlc cate faehrmann. in preparation of the new expansion i figured i'd make something desert themed. i actually really like roaming in the desert borderlands so this was a fun look to make. i went with colors that you would normally find while going through desert areas in the game such as light browns, orange tints and a bit of lavender hues to compliment it all. as a roamer i like the idea of having my gear blend into the surroundings rather than stick out like a sore thumb. the armor is meant to have an explorer feel with the right equipment for the area like a mercenary backpack or the goggles and a scarf for protection from the dusty winds, as well as elements from the wilderness of the area such as the gloves, top and boots. the weapons are also desert wilderness themed with the look of a dead branch as the staff and the skeletons of beasts as the greatsword and longbow. since i can't find the weapons and backpack here, i'll just list them: longbow - mordrem longbow greatsword - beastslayer greatsword staff - yggdrasil backpack - mercenary backpack hope you enjoy! with the start of the 2017 league year quickly approaching, the 30 teams without a rooting interest in sunday's big game are eager to get to work. according to cbs's jason la canfora, a few of those franchises, specifically those with a need at quarterback, have had detailed in-house dialogues about the potential costs of acquiring popular trade targets tony romo, kirk cousins, and arlington heights, il-native jimmy garoppolo. la canfora reported the bears will be making a heavy push for garoppolo, according to his sources inside the bears organization "with knowledge of the situation". he also stated that many front-office personnel around the league consider garoppolo the top quarterback target of the 2017 offseason. for patriots fans who have been inundated with prognostications of potential trade partners for garoppolo for the better part of two years, this news should come as no surprise. with a positive recent trade history between chicago and new england, ample bears draft capital, and an eventual glaring hole at the quarterback position once ties with jay cutler are severed, the match appears to be perfect. furthermore, chicago gm ryan pace and garoppolo are even fellow eastern illinois alumni. la canfora also reported that chicago has done "considerable work" on washington's kirk cousins, although the general consensus around football is that he will receive the franchise tag for a second consecutive season. a state prosecutor has been fatally shot in a courtroom in the southern german state of bavaria. the gunman, a 54-year-old defendant in a case at dachau district court, opened fire first at the judge before shooting the prosecutor, reports say. the prosecutor was hit three times, in the arm, stomach and shoulder, and taken to hospital where he later died. the defendant was overpowered and taken into custody. it is believed he was accused of improper payment of wages. unconfirmed reports said the victim was 31 and from munich and had been employed by the bavarian prosecutor's office for only a year. the man had allegedly failed to pay tens of thousands of euros of national insurance contributions. had he been convicted he would have faced a fine or a possible five-year jail term. security at german courts has been tightened in recent years because of several earlier attacks on judges and prosecutors. but german media said it was clear that no rigorous search of the defendant had been carried out. in april 2009, a man killed a woman relative in a courtroom in landshut, north-east of munich, over an inheritance dispute. a few months later an egyptian woman was fatally stabbed in the eastern city of dresden. a belgian murderer and rapist serving a life sentence is to be allowed to have doctors end his life following a ground-breaking ruling under laws in belgium permitting people to request euthanasia. frank van den bleeken had argued that he had no prospect of release since he could not overcome his violent sexual impulses and so he wanted to exercise his right to medically assisted suicide to end years of mental anguish. belgium is breaking new ground in assisted suicide. credit:kate geraghty "over recent years, he has been seen by several doctors and psychologists, and their conclusion is that he is suffering, and suffering unbearably," said his lawyer, jos vander velpen. the judicial ruling was the first involving a prisoner since the euthanasia law was introduced 12 years ago. despite having received advice from its own department that disincentives alone - temporary protection visas and offshore processing - would not stop asylum boat arrivals, the government proceeded with that part of the plan anyway. and as predicted, the boats did not stop, nor even slow - so by labor's own definition its policy was a failure. that leaves the government entering an election year trapped in the worst of both worlds. it is attacked for the ''cruelty'' and inhumanity of conditions on nauru and also attacked by the coalition because the boat arrivals are still not slowing. coalition spokesman scott morrison has calculated that more asylum seekers have arrived by boat since labor came to power in 2007 than the population of alice springs - a vivid comparison he can keep updating. in a few weeks it will be lismore, then bathurst. by the time of the next election the ''crisis'' of arrivals might be up to dubbo proportions. so labor has reached for another solutions harking back to the howard era - bridging visas for refugees processed onshore that will leave them in a devastating and poverty-stricken legal limbo-world for five years or maybe even longer, in many ways similar to the situation of the people to whom the howard government gave temporary protection visas. enforcement officers, such as police and customs, have admitted the uk drugs market will not be eradicated, an independent report will reveal today. the study, by the uk drug policy commission, concludes that traditional enforcement actions such as arrests and drug seizures have "no apparent long-term" impact on reducing supply. in some cases, enforcement even exacerbates the problem such as leading to turf wars or pushing markets to more sensitive areas such as outside schools or residential areas. the report calls for a new approach that focuses on tackling the specific harms a drugs market has on each area, whether a rise in violence or increased fear of crime. but the commission, an independent think-tank, backs policies that could see drugs markets simply moved from one area to another if it causes less problems, rather than being closed down. it says there will be "difficult decisions" to be made such as "trading-off" a reduction in some harms against an increase in others, such as a drug market being displaced from one locality to another. the report, entitled refocusing drug related law enforcement to address harms, also recommends support for the families of arrested drug dealers as another way of reducing harms. a poll of 400 enforcement officers carried out for the study found 90 per cent accepted "it is very unlikely that the uk drug market will be eradicated in the foreseeable future". the report warns drug markets are "large, resilient and quick to adapt" where gaps are quickly filled meaning traditional enforcement has little effect. arrests and seizures also have "limited or no sustained" impact on the harms caused to communities, it says. markets can cause more "collateral damage" in some areas than others and enforcement action should therefore prioritise the most harmful and tackling the harms specific to each area. it says all enforcement operations should be assessed to demonstrate they have had a positive impact on communities. we're already looking forward to a brand new premier league campaign - but what can we expect to be different next time round? sky sports news hq understands that next month premier league clubs will discuss increasing the numbers of substitutes allowed on match days, from seven to nine. clubs will still only be allowed to use three substitutes - but we understand manchester united and chelsea are leading the push to add another two subs to the bench. in 2008, the premier league increased the numbers of subs allowed from five to seven. the proposals will be discussed at the premier league's agm in june. this will be the first shareholders meeting for some time for burnley, middlesbrough and either hull or sheffield wednesday. other things we know will be new for next season include live and exclusive friday night premier league football from sky sports. a total of 10 premier league matches will be shown here on sky sports on friday nights throughout the season. other changes for the next campaign will include a brand new substitute board - complete with a new sponsor in tag heuer. nike will launch the new 2016-2017 premier league ball later this summer and the new premier league logo will be seen everywhere - including on the sleeves of all players - and without the barclays logo after the title sponsorship deal came to an end. a mobile catering business venture - providing delicious home made spare ribs and chicken wings, along with chips, salad and refreshing soft drinks. our personal love of mouth watering, smokehouse ribs and hot and spicy chicken wings, accompanied by our disappointment at the lack of good options in our local area, are the driving force behind our dream venture. we plan on producing these foods; homemade, fresh and most importantly, fast and affordable. there is a gap in the food to go market for this popular food combination and we believe we can fill it brilliantly. what we may lack in experience, we more than make up for in hardwork, determination and imagination. we would love for you to help us achieve our goal, and hopefully one day, you will be enjoying a delicious serving of ribs and wings, served by yours truly. the app's home screen, which opens in a full-screen, horizontal format only, will make your jaw drop. it's a time piece unlike any we've seen before on our phones. the clock face is built in the ecliptic, around planet earth. it's what your view would be if you were floating about in outer space, watching the planets in orbit, with earth as your focal point. you get various viewing options to play with and play you will. you can view the earth with or without the sky cover, with or without the constellations; you can view it as a contained celestial sphere, or even as an open sky that coats your entire screen with interstellar gas and dust - it's simply breathtaking, and the various combinations lead to fascinating results. twirl the globe on any axis and view the sky along with the position of the sun, moon and planets over any city, along with the time of day there in real time. the beauty of this lies in observing how darkness falls upon the cities as that part of the globe rotates away from the sun. the kansas city chiefs finished thursday's 42-27 stunning victory without one of their key offensive weapons. tyreek hill went to the locker room late in the fourth quarter with cramps and did not return. we'll chalk up hill's brief absence to his opening night fitness, or lack thereof -- though new england's secondary would likely attest otherwise. before leaving with his injury, hill was having a monster night. the breakaway threat caught seven balls for 133 yards, including a 75-yard touchdown. hill's game-breaking score was also record-breaking. the second-year speedster has now scored a 65-plus-yard touchdown in five consecutive regular-season games, dating back to last season. the wideout was all over the field during kansas city's offensive explosion. on any given snap, hill could be found outside the numbers, in the slot, in the singleback formation or even next to alex smith as a wingback. sometimes used as a decoy and always utilizing his speed, hill is kansas city's swiss army knife, the most crucial weapon in an offense now stacked with three players at three different positions -- hill, kareem hunt and travis kelce -- who caught passes and handled carries in the upset victory. when healthy, hill's potential is dangerous, and the same goes for this newfangled chiefs offense. police on sunday were questioning a 23-year-old pakistani national in connection with a double homicide on saturday night on the island of evia. the suspect was arrested by officers during a large-scale investigation into the murder of a married couple in aliveri, southeast of halkida, on saturday night. the 54-year-old woman and her 56-year-old husband were found dead by police officers responding to a call from their daughter in athens, who said that she had been trying to get in touch with them for several hours but was unable to. officers of the halkida precinct sent to investigate the daughter's concerns found the mother dead in the back yard of the home and the father's body in the bedroom. both showed signs of violence, though a coroner's report on the exact causes of their deaths is pending. the 23-year-old suspect was being questioned along with another six men who are facing charges of harboring a criminal. the mayor of the swiss town of baden, who is also a member of parliament, was suspended today following allegations that he sent nude selfies taken at work to a female friend. geri muller, 53, who holds a seat for the greens in the legislature's lower house, was temporarily relieved of his mayoral duties in the small town northwest of zurich. it came after the schweiz am sonntag newspaper reported yesterday that he had sent the nude pictures taken on his mobile phone to a female acquaintance. mr muller quickly reacted in a statement by his lawyer, saying the woman, who was not named, had threatened to go public about the photos. he said she had also threatened to take her own life. the mayor, who is on the lower house foreign affairs committee, said he himself had asked the police to intervene, his lawyer said yesterday. he said that baden police had taken the woman in for questioning on thursday. the city council statement said muller was suspended pending "clarification of the situation" but that he was presumed innocent while enquiries were under way. barcelona have been unimpressed with the refereeing so far in la liga, having appealed for and been denied several penalties, despite winning all three games to maintain a 100 per cent record. rik sharma here are the calls barcelona are unhappy about from the league season so far - and this comes after the controversy over gerard pique's sending off in the spanish super cup clash against athletic. ----------------- game 1: athletic club 0-1 barcelona referee: del cerro grande - a sergi roberto cross was handled by gorka elustondo in the area. the referee didn't spot it, although he also didn't spot that the ball had gone out of play in the moments before the cross. game 2: barcelona 1-0 malaga referee: santiago jaime latre - a handball by miguel torres as neymar tried to dribble the ball around him in the box. similar to the one given against gerard pique at the bernabeu clasico the previous season. - two minutes later, angeleri brought down luis suarez inside the area but a penalty was not awarded. game 3: atletico madrid 1-2 barcelona referee: antonio mateu lahoz - jose gimenez handled an ivan rakitic cross in the area, from close range. - jose gimenez handled a neymar shot in the area, but the ball bounced off his chest onto his arm and it was hard to stop. - diego godin handled a neymar shot which seemed like it was going in. dry was shockingly frank in its subject and sound, as pj harvey delivered post-feminist manifestos with a punkish force. pj harvey's second album, rid of me, finds the trio, and harvey in particular, pushing themselves to extremes. this is partially due to producer steve albini, who gives the album a bloodless, abrasive edge with his exacting production; each dynamic is pushed to the limit, leaving absolutely no subtleties in the music. harvey's songs, in decided contrast to albini's approach, are filled with gray areas and uncertainties, and are considerably more personal than those on dry. furthermore, they are lyrically and melodically superior to the songs on the debut, but their merits are obscured by albini's black-and-white production, which is polarizing. it may be the aural embodiment of the tortured lyrics, and therefore a supremely effective piece of performance art, but it also makes rid of me a difficult record to meet halfway. but anyone willing to accept its sonic extremities will find rid of me to be a record of unusual power and purpose, one with few peers in its unsettling emotional honesty. classic in classic mode on the nintendo 3ds, players choose different paths as they proceed along a map and fight against waiting cpu opponents. there are many different kinds of matches, including one-on-one fights, team battles with cpu players both aiding and attacking you, matches where you must defeat opponents one after another or in groups, and even more. when you win a match, you will receive a reward. besides trophies and gold, you can also receive custom parts. fighter balance before starting a game, you can use gold to adjust the intensity level. the higher the intensity, the stronger opponents will be, and the greater a player's rewards will be when victorious. stadium there are three sub-modes in the stadium: multi-man smash, home-run contest and the all-new target blast. in target blast, players have a bomb that will explode 10 seconds after being hit. they must launch this bomb to destroy blocks and targets and score points. getting a good score depends on launching the bomb to areas rich with targets, getting the timing of the explosion just right, and using the explosive blocks found around the stage to maximum effect. president trump will travel one building over to the treasury department friday to sign an executive order related to finance. a white house spokesman told the washington examiner that trump will sign one executive order and two memoranda. the order will require the treasury to identify and lessen burdens from tax regulations issued in 2016, and the other two will focus on examining and possibly revisiting two areas of the 2010 dodd-frank financial reform law. one area of scrutiny is the new government authority to take over a failing bank and resolve its affairs, paying out creditors. conservatives have said that the process, meant to provide an alternative to a chaotic and system-threatening bank collapse, amounts to an automatic bailout. the other is the super-group of financial regulators tasked with searching out threats to the financial system. the group, the financial stability oversight council, also has the authority to designate nonbank firms to be regulated as if they were mega banks. conservatives view the council as unaccountable. the treasury is already following an early executive order requiring the secretary to report on ways to ease regulatory burdens. treasury secretary steven mnuchin said thursday that he planned to submit that report in june, and that it would include both possible changes in regulation and recommended changes to legislation. there are certain factors that make buildings in new york city more likely to have a fire, including average neighborhood income, the age of the building, and whether it has electrical issues. the city's fire department has now catalogued 60 of these factors in a database that ranks buildings in order of their risk of fire, using the results to decide which ones get inspected first. the new method aligns with a national trend toward using big data to make city services more efficient. boston uses a similar system to identify which properties should get visits from the police, for example. in the past, new york's firefighters made sure to hit high-priority buildings like schools and libraries more frequently. but other than that, inspections were almost random. the new system should reduce the number of fires and make fires less severe, according to the fire department. tokyo -- japanese police were looking for traces of poison in the home of a woman arrested on suspicion of killing her husband, one of six men who have died while in a relationship with her over the past 20 years. police say they suspect insurance claims or inheritance money could be the motive for the killings. chisako kakehi, 67, was arrested wednesday in kyoto prefecture after cyanide was found in the body of her 75-year-old husband, a senior official at the investigative department told the associated press in a telephone interview from kyoto. he spoke on condition of anonymity, citing the pending investigation. kakehi has denied involvement in the deaths and has not been formally charged. her latest marriage lasted one month before her husband died in december. cyanide had also been found in the blood of a 71-year-old partner who fell while riding a bike in 2012, officials said. his death was initially attributed to a heart disease. kakehi had reportedly married three times and had relationships with three other men over the past two decades. all had died within a few years of marrying or starting relationships with her. all the deaths occurred in the western japan area, including kyoto and osaka. on thursday, police raided her apartment in osaka following searches at her home in muko city, and confiscated capsules and wafers to wrap powdered medicine as possible evidence, reports said. kakehi caught the attention of authorities after she called an ambulance to rush her latest husband to a hospital, saying he suddenly collapsed at home. an autopsy found cyanide in his blood, and investigators eventually ruled out a suicide, leading to kakehi's arrest. she was being questioned by the prefectural prosecutor before a decision is made whether to press charges. horses killed more people in australia in recent years than all venomous animals combined, research has shown. the university of melbourne's dr ronelle welton examined hospital admissions data and coronial records. from 2000 to 2013, horses were responsible for 74 deaths. bees and other stinging insects were the next most dangerous, causing 27 deaths, followed by snakes, which also claimed 27 lives but landed fewer people in hospital. spiders were not responsible for any deaths during that time, the research showed. challenging stereotypes dr welton said the study, published in internal medicine journal, challenged stereotypes around australia's venomous animals. the main focus of her study was animals that bite and sting, but she uncovered the number of horse-related deaths in the process. "australia is known as the epicentre of all things venomous," dr welton told the bbc. but "what was surprising" was that insects caused the most people to seek treatment in hospital, she said. dr welton said the research showed allergic reactions to bites or stings posed the most danger. a studio apartment in the world's tallest building can be rented for as little as dh80,000 a year, the agency better homes says. apartments in the burj khalifa, the world's tallest building and arguably dubai's most prestigious address, are now available for rent at prices 40 per cent less than when the building opened 10 months ago. a studio apartment can be had for as little as dh80,000, with a one-bedroom unit renting for dh100,000 annually, said laura adams, sales and leasing manager for better homes, one of the property brokerages marketing the property. a number of units were recently handed over by burj khalifa's developer, emaar properties, which put pressure on rental rates by increasing the supply of available apartments. only eight per cent of the building's 900 apartments are occupied, she said. also a factor is that dubai's property slump has caused nearby buildings to slash rates dramatically, and some of them compare favourably to the burj khalifa in terms of amenities. the address, also owned by emaar, charges rates similar to those at the burj khalifa, but the apartments are fully-serviced, with seven restaurants on the premises, and many of the units featuring balconies with views of the burj khalifa. the service charges of dh53 per square foot at the burj khalifa are also considered higher than nearby residential buildings. for an average sized one-bedroom, the service charges would be more than dh5,000 per month. during much of the burj khalifa's construction, dubai was in the midst of an off-plan property boom and apartments sold for more than dh10,000 per square foot at the market peak. most units now for sale are listed at around dh3,000 per square foot, ms adams said. pirelli will supply formula 1 teams with an extra set of tyres for practice sessions at this weekend's spanish grand prix. the idea is to ensure leading drivers run for the entire session rather than waiting for others to clean the track and make it more suitable for effective running. the genesis of the plan was to make the tyres available only for rookie, non-race drivers to help them gain experience. but this has been abandoned in favour of all drivers getting the extra set. pirelli said the additional tyres would be of a "prototype hard compound". initially, the plan is only in place for the spanish grand prix. pirelli said it would see if it ensured teams spent longer on the track before making a decision on the rest of the season. pirelli has already announced it has made a small tweak to the regular 'hard' compound tyre for the spanish race, which will make the rubber slightly more durable and lower its operating temperature. however the firm has resisted pressure from world champions red bull to make all its tyres more durable in the wake of concerns drivers were not able to push to the limits of the car throughout a race distance for fear of using the tyres up too quickly. what began as a routine training exercise almost ended in an embarrassing diplomatic incident after a company of swiss soldiers got lost at night and marched into neighboring liechtenstein. according to swiss daily blick, the 170 infantry soldiers wandered just over a mile across an unmarked border into the tiny principality early thursday before realizing their mistake and turning back. a spokesman for the swiss army confirmed the story but said that there were unlikely to be any serious repercussions for the mistaken invasion. "we've spoken to the authorities in liechtenstein and it's not a problem," daniel reist told the associated press. officials in liechtenstein also played down the incident. interior ministry spokesman markus amman said nobody in liechtenstein had even noticed the soldiers, who were carrying assault rifles but no ammunition. "it's not like they stormed over here with attack helicopters or something," he said. liechtenstein, which has about 34,000 inhabitants and is slightly smaller than washington dc, doesn't have an army. the government in iraq's kurdistan region offered wednesday to freeze the results of an independence referendum and start dialogue with the central government in baghdad in order to prevent any further violence between the two sides. last week, iraqi forces seized the city of kirkuk and other disputed areas held by the kurds in response to the referendum, which prime minister haider al-abadi's government declared illegal. the kurdistan regional government's statement said the confrontations have hurt both sides and could lead to ongoing bloodshed and social unrest in iraq. "certainly, continued fighting does not lead any side to victory, but it will drive the country towards disarray and chaos, affecting all aspects of life," the krg said. in addition to setting aside the referendum and proposing talks, the kurds also called for an immediate halt to all military operations in their northern region of iraq. authorities in parbhani town in the parched marathwada region of the state, which is experiencing an unprecedented water scarcity this summer, on tuesday said they have imposed prohibitory orders near water supply spots in the town. "orders under section 144 of crpc have been imposed in the vicinity of water supply spots in parbhani," parbhani district collector rahul mahiwal said. the orders came into force from april 4 and will be on till may 3, the official said. the development comes a day after police in latur town in marathwada decided to deploy police at water supply spots in that town if the situation demands. "latur municipal corporation has already deployed home guards at the water tanks. if needed, we will deploy police there to prevent law and order issues over water supply," latur superintendent of police dnyaneshwar chavan had told pti. "there are six main water tanks in latur. there is already a police chowki next to one of the tanks. we have increased patrolling in these areas," chavan said. amid an unprecedented scarcity of water, district collector. pandurang pol last month clamped section 144 of crpc in drought-stricken latur to bar assembly of more than five people around the wells and water filling points to prevent possible violence. streaming media group stan is taking legal action against a group of men who racially abused labor senator sam dastyari, after it was revealed that the far-right group took their name from stan's upcoming drama series romper stomper. the men from the group patriot blue surrounded the senator while he was sitting down in a melbourne pub to tell him to return home to his birth nation of iran, while one man shouted "you terrorist, you little monkey", which they filmed and later posted on their facebook page. stan and roadshow productions issued a statement condemning the men's actions and instructed law firm gilbert and tobin to seek legal action against the men over the infringement of the patriot blue trademark, and use of the stan name on facebook. "stan and roadshow productions would like to clarify that while our series does refer to a purely fictional group created for the series called patriot blue, there is no association between our organisations or the romper stomper production team and those involved in yesterday's incident," the joint-statement said. first off i want to say this lego set was a pretty awesome build bottom to top with tons of very neat details put into every corner to each section of this set! when i first saw this set was available early to vip's back in august i contemplated on getting one because of the cost of the set. then after seeing it sold out so fast both in august and then on its release date in september i realized i just had to go for it and just get one! so i called the lego store nearest to me and off i went! so the build took me around 12-13 hours over the span of a few days to complete. once you are all done with completing the construction of this set you'll truly appreciate the time and thought that was put into creating and constructing this amazing piece of art. the disney cinderella castle has a lot of neat features from a variety of different disney films which lego did an outstanding job with putting so much detail into each and every section. i did go a little above and beyond by illuminating the entire castle. i illuminated the outside with colorful lights just as it would look at disney world. then i also installed lights on the interior. i was able to do all of the lighting without gluing or drilling holes through the plastic. overall this is a great set to build, own and i would really recommend getting your hands on one! i will say that this set is not the set you would want to play with once it's built other than displaying it. the afl has been quietly developing a modified form of australian rules that is played on a soccer field, which it trialled in a secret match between two vfl teams last weekend. with the working name afl x, the new version of the game allows just seven players from each team on the ground, far fewer than the usual 18-a-side, and is part of a broader plan to become a year-round sport. afl boss gillon mclachlan, speaking after the hawks young executive wing grand final breakfast, said the concept had come from a brainstorming session with his staff. he said the idea behind afl x had been to attract non-football fans to the game and enable it to be taken to venues where football could not normally be played because they did not have an oval. the duke of cambridge's posting to the falkland islands has been condemned by argentina as a "provocative act". britain says prince william's deployment for training as a helicopter rescue pilot is routine. but argentine official sebastian brugo marco said argentina could not ignore the "political content" of the mission. the prince's tour next year will come shortly before the 30th anniversary of argentina's defeat in the falklands war. argentina still claims sovereignty over the islands, which it calls las malvinas. mr brugo marco, the argentine official with responsibility for the south atlantic territory, made his comments in an interview with the argentine newspaper, la nacion . "it is one more provocative act that shows britain's military presence in a zone of peace where there is no armed conflict," he said. "one cannot ignore the political content of this military operation bearing in mind that the prince forms part of the royal family". 'arrogant' britain the royal air force has stressed that the posting is a normal part of prince william's training and says he will not perform any ceremonial duties. his uncle, the duke of york, served as a helicopter pilot in the 1982 conflict, when argentina invaded the islands only to be defeated by a british task force. earlier this year argentine president cristina fernandez de kirchner called britain "arrogant" for refusing to negotiate on the islands. her government stepped up its campaign to gain sovereignty over the territory in 2010 after britain started to search for oil in falklands waters. uk prime minister david cameron has said there can be no negotiations on the status of the islands unless the people of the falklands want them. britain has ruled the falklands for more than 180 years, but argentina insists it has a prior claim. nanticoke -- it's supposed to be scary around halloween, but not quite like this. police are investigating reports of a masked man in nanticoke attacking people with a bow and arrow. so far two attacks were reported and some people we spoke with are worried that more attacks could happen. police don't have a clear motive for why a masked man would be attacking people, but the people who have been attacked do not think this is funny if it's all a prank. "i mean i've heard gunshots, i've heard paintballs, ice, everything. an arrow is just weird," said tara karlowicz of nanticoke. ruth hirthler says it's also dangerous. her 15-year-old son was the first person attacked on coal street. just a day later, a second attack was reported less than a mile away, on east grand street. "he thought it was a joke, somebody messing with him because we all mess with each other like that with halloween coming up," hirthler said. the 15 year old was attacked in front of his home. he says a masked man walked up to him with a bow and arrow and asked him, "where the drugs were at?" when he said he didn't know. he was hit with the arrow. police usually hear just about everything, but they agree this is odd. "this is messed up and you belong in jail. you need to stop," said 10-year-old brian hirthler. nanticoke police have one of the arrows used in the attacks and say they may send it off for dna testing to see if they can identify the alleged attacker. there is an overwhelming gap between mental health provision and the needs of people in northern ireland, according to a report. the research, by the mental health rights campaign, found that general practice is falling short of the standards of care to which it aspires. the group comprises people affected by mental health issues, their carers, and families bereaved through suicide. there are about 12 groups which campaign for improvements in services. dr john kyle, a gp in east belfast, says it is clear that a system which "makes people feel worthless and unimportant" is unacceptable. one woman's story a county tyrone woman who was hospitalised in england for almost three years because of mental illness says there needs to be a big cultural shift in northern ireland if issues like suicide and self harm are to be tackled. nicole devlin says she's speaking out about her own experiences in a bid to help other people and reduce stigma - particularly around personality disorders. the report, "beyond a spin of the wheel", has a series of recommendations which include mandatory mental health training for gps and other relevant staff. while they say there are a long list of areas where change is needed, the following are areas which require urgent transformation: lack of mental health expertise among gps barriers to accessing appointments for mental health care the over prescription of medication to deal with mental health issues. a number of recommendations are made in an attempt to break down the barriers to providing a good mental health service. these include mandatory mental health training for gps and other relevant staff, a designated phone line for mental health appointments, a 'red flag' system on patients' files to alert the receptionist that a caller has mental health issues and provision of double or longer appointments for people with mental health issues. it looks like you won't have to wait long at all to check out google's visually rich play store revamp -- it's rolling out now. the refresh doesn't appear any different on the surface, but a quick dive shows very different product pages that are clearly inspired by the company's multi-layered material design philosophy. cover art plays a much larger role, and details like rating overviews and genres have been moved into easy-to-read icons. you might not like everything about the new storefront -- there's considerably more scrolling involved, for one thing. on the whole, though, it's both prettier and easier to understand at a glance. the revamp should reach your device within days, but android police has an installer if you just can't wait to see what's new. 2,000 years ago, the roman empire ruled the lands around the mediterranean sea. with peace at the borders, harmony inside the provinces, uniform law, and a common currency, the economy thrived and gave rise to mighty roman dynasties as they expanded throughout the numerous cities. guide one of these dynasties and send colonists to the remote realms of the empire; develop your trade network; and appease the ancient gods for their favor - all to gain the chance to emerge victorious! concordia is a peaceful strategy game of economic development in roman times for 2 to 5 players age 13 and up. instead of luck of dice or cards, players must rely on their strategic abilities. be sure to watch your rivals to determine which goals they are pursuing and where you can outpace them! prime minister malcolm turnbull has confirmed australian human rights commission president gillian triggs will be replaced with a new commissioner when her term expires next year. fairfax media last month reported the government was already scouring for a replacement, with a senior source saying the selection process would be "well under way" by the end of the christmas break. the fractious relationship between professor triggs and the coalition continued to sour after she wrongly told a senate estimates hearing in october she believed a newspaper had misquoted her in statements critical of politicians. in remarks that were immediately praised by one of professor triggs' biggest detractors, arch-conservative liberal senator eric abetz, mr turnbull on wednesday confirmed to 2gb radio that there would be a new ahrc boss next year. update: following thousands of emails from supporters across the world, and as a result of a strong union at walmart's stores in chile, the 22 workers who had been fired by walmart have been rehired, with walmart chile conceding to all the demands of the union. thank you for your support, as this effort could not have been successful without international solidarity. an exciting movement is happening in chile, pushing for sweeping changes to tax reform, a new social security system, new labor legislation, and more investment in health and education. last week, workers across the country participated in a general strike, and walmart's operations there were one target. as a result walmart, which operates as linder in chile, fired 22 workers who participated in the protest. walmart was the only company in the country who fired workers for participating in the demonstrations. now walmart is dragging its feet in engaging with the workers' representatives who are trying to resolve this issue. send a message to enrique ostale, ceo of walmart chile, and karina awad, the head of human resources for walmart chile, telling them to constructively engage with the workers' representatives immediately. walmart must not be allowed to take away workers' livelihoods for simply asserting their democratic rights. berlin: german police shot dead a knife-wielding iraqi in a refugee shelter who was attacking a pakistani he suspected of having sexually abused his young daughter, police said wednesday. the 29-year-old iraqi died after being hit by several police bullets late tuesday in the asylum seekers' shelter in the central berlin district of moabit. police were called to the shelter after the 27-year-old pakistani man allegedly sexually abused an eight-year-old girl in a nearby park, bz daily reported. when police detained the suspect and led him away in handcuffs, the girl's father lunged at him with a knife, yelling "you won't survive this", according to witnesses. he was cut down by several police bullets and died hours later in hospital. the alleged sexual attacker remained uninjured. the girl and her mother were undergoing counselling. police did not immediately release the personal details of those involved. an internal police enquiry was launched, a routine step after deadly shots have been fired, while the police union warned against condemning the officers involved. "the officers had to prevent an act of vigilante justice and a situation that was life-threatening for them," said the union's berlin chief bodo pfalzgraf. he reiterated a union demand that police be equipped with electric stun guns, saying "police don't want to kill but are forced to if the government doesn't give them other operational means". germany last year took in one million asylum seekers, around half of them from war-torn syria, iraq and afghanistan, housing them in hostels, sports gyms, army barracks and other facilities nationwide. lawyers for president donald trump's senior advisor jared kushner have called at least two crisis public relations firms in the past two weeks, according to the washington post. the president's son-in-law has been the subject of enormous amounts of press coverage as congressional and federal investigators ramp up their probes of the president's alleged ties to russia. kushner's attorney abbe lowell told the post that he was seeking a firm that handled high-profile clients that receive press attention, and cited the post's inquiry as an example of why such a firm is needed. kushner is reportedly a subject of special counsel robert mueller's russia probe, though the special counsel's office does not comment about its investigation outside of official court documents. in one court filing, mueller alleges that a "very senior" trump official directed former national security advisor michael flynn to contact foreign officials during the trump transition. nbc news later reported that the senior official was kushner. lowell did not respond to a request for comment from cnbc. read the full report at the washington post. a day after being spotted with new new england patriots teammate danny amendola working out at usc, tom brady was back on the field at the trojans' facility and throwing passes to an unlikely target wednesday: terrell owens. owens, who last played in an nfl game during the 2010 season, tweeted about the workout, noting it also involved minnesota vikings and former patriots quarterback matt cassel. the 39-year-old wide receiver spent just more than three weeks with the seattle seahawks during training camp last august but eventually was released prior to the start of the regular season. he spent the 2010 season with the cincinnati bengals, starting 11 of 14 games with 72 catches for 983 yards and nine touchdowns. owens is second in the nfl all time in receiving yards and third in receiving touchdowns. a german court has ruled breast implants are no impediment to a woman becoming a police officer. the ruling by the administrative court in the western city of gelsenkirchen wednesday came after a 32-year-old woman appealed a police doctor's assessment that her silicone implants were likely to rupture during physically demanding law-enforcement work. but the court heard expert testimony there was less than a 20 percent risk of an implant ripping or other painful problems, the dpa news agency reported. nationwide police guidance says women with implants are not suited for police duty because of the injury risk, but other courts have also ruled otherwise. a berlin court in 2014, for example, rejected the argument that protective gear would put enough pressure on a recruit's chest to cause health problems. robust, functional, affordable and scalable commodity supply chain tracking systems are essential to reducing deforestation resulting from the production of tropical forest commodities. in brazil, monitoring tools are becoming increasingly important to private sector efforts aiming to reduce and eliminate the risk of deforestation from tropical forest commodity supply chains. this report provides a comprehensive comparison of supply chain tracking tools for tropical forest commodities, specifically cattle, soy and timber, currently being used in brazil. in addition to detailing the objectives, methodologies, scope and cost of each tool, the report also describes the advantages and challenges of each system, and concludes with a comprehensive comparison. this report will inform private sector entities, other supply chain actors and consumers about the various supply chain monitoring tools available to help reduce and eliminate deforestation from tropical forest commodity production, and serve as a guide to help companies identify the most suitable tools to increase supply chain transparency and traceability. australian foreign minister julie bishop has refused to express confidence a refugee swap with the united states will go ahead, after the chief diplomat had her first high-level interaction with president donald trump's administration. the deal, struck in november under president barack obama, was to see 1800 refugees held in australian offshore detention centres resettled in the us, but president trump has thrown the agreement into doubt. a leaked draft executive order from the white house reported by us newspapers on thursday includes a four-month suspension on accepting refugees and a range of long-term restrictions. speaking after a dialogue on australia-us relations in los angeles on thursday, ms bishop said she took a phone call that afternoon from us vice president mike pence and had a "warm and engaging discussion" about a "whole range of issues". ms bishop would not say if the refugee swap had been discussed with anyone in the new administration, or if she had confidence it would go ahead. "i believe the united states and australia will continue to work together to assist each other in implementing our strong border protection policies," she said. ottawa - newly released documents show canadians have been urging prime minister justin trudeau to hold a referendum on electoral reform. in nearly 200 pages of messages to the prime minister, some staunch liberal supporters even say they're prepared to reconsider their allegiance over the handling of the electoral reform file. the messages, obtained by the canadian press under the access to information act, date back to may, when the government gave liberals a majority on the commons electoral reform committee -- a move they eventually reversed after a public outcry. the majority of letter writers express a desire for proportional representation to replace the current first-past-the-post system, and only a few said no to a referendum. several also asked trudeau to heed the recommendations of the electoral reform committee when it delivered its final report, which happened thursday. democratic institutions minister maryam monsef blasted the report, which recommended the government design a new proportional voting system and hold a referendum to gauge public support for it. metro trains will have to lift its game or potentially pay millions of dollars in fines for late and cancelled trains every three months under the proposed terms of a tougher seven-year agreement with the state. the practice of station-skipping, terminating trains short of the end of the line, and bypassing the city loop or altona loop, will also be penalised in the proposed new contract. the company will have to do more to make sure melbourne's trains and stations are in good condition, and that information about service disruptions and delays gets to passengers when and how they need it, or face millions more in fines. the age has obtained a leaked copy of the benchmarks the government wants metro to meet if it continues as operator of melbourne's rail system for another seven years. the unidentified man is calm, has not made any demands and is in regular contact with police via the telephones of the hostages, regional police chief oleh bekh told 112 news channel, as reported by reuters. television footage showed police and parked police cars outside a two-story white-and-yellow building in the northeastern city. the area has been closed off to traffic. read alsopossible accomplice in voronenkov murder killed in kharkiv"we are trying to do everything to maintain communication with him and to do everything that is necessary to ensure the people are released," bekh said. the man in the post office was concerned about the recent prisoner exchange between the ukrainian authorities and pro-russian separatists and thought more prisoners should have been released, bekh said, adding police did not know what he wanted. ukraine and the separatists swapped hundreds of prisoners on wednesday in the biggest such exchange since the outbreak of a conflict in the eastern donbas region that has killed more than 10,000 people. later, it was reported that the law enforcers released the hostages and detained the attacker. murder mystery after attending a gathering on a billionaire's yacht during a european vacation, a new york cop and his wife become prime suspects when he's murdered. another life astronaut niko breckenridge and her young crew face unimaginable danger as they go on a high-risk mission to explore the genesis of an alien artifact. if i hadn't met you eduard, a husband and father who loses his family in a tragic accident, travels to parallel universes to seek a better fate for his beloved wife. jimmy carr: the best of ultimate gold greatest hits nothing is off limits as jimmy carr serves up the most outrageous jokes from his stand-up career in a special that's not for the faint of heart. jinn when a girl accidentally releases a jinn in the form of a teenage boy, they learn they've also unleashed an ancient darkness that threatens the world. the spy this drama series tells the astonishing true story of israel's most prominent spy, eli cohen, who infiltrated the syrian government in the 1960s. hit and run in this political espionage thriller series, a man's life is turned upside down when his wife is killed in a mysterious hit-and-run accident. my first first love a college student reluctantly lets a group of his friends move into his house, where they experience love, friendship, and everything in between. sassy graduation gown shows them you're at the top of your class, or at least on top! micro mini-graduation robe with zipper front. use the official delicious costume size chart to help select the best size for you. delicious is an international designer and manufacturer of gorgeous, top-quality costumes for women from x-small to 2x. delicious is dedicated to celebrating beauty by creating a wide range of costume styles that empower women by making them look and feel their best. costumes are all about embracing the opportunity to be a fun character from your fantasies, and with every design, delicious makes that happen in a flattering and stylish way. delicious costumes are designed to let your self-confidence, individuality, and sense of style shine. the creative team behind these costumes believe that every woman deserves to look delicious! dive into your dream costume with the confidence you'll be beautiful for halloween and any other costumed occasion. documentary series going behind the scenes at scarlets rugby club. after a run of defeats, the scarlets have to win two games to keep their league play-off hopes alive. the first in a series which follows the welsh rugby region through one of the most turbulent periods in the history of the domestic game. the series has gone behind the scenes at the scarlets to show the challenges of keeping a professional rugby region going, especially in difficult economic times. in the first programme, after a run of defeats, the scarlets have to win two games to keep their league play-off hopes alive, while the star international players are away playing for wales in the six nations. meanwhile, the club has to look at different ways of raising revenue. what use would it be then to become the great schismatic, the reformer who was awaited? of all the dangers that threaten the path of the reformer that of injustice is the greatest. i've been reading his 'traveling with a reformer,' in which he abuses our road. every reformer the world has ever seen has had a similar experience. herein, then, lies the secret of the success of the reformer. what answer should the reformer give to so pressing an invitation? it was as a reformer that he had been elected two years before. that speck there is a reformer, just arranging the lever with which he is to move the world. zoroaster was not their founder, but was their reformer, and the purifier of their doctrines. it often happens that the reformer reaps not the benefit of the reform he introduces. niantic officials have coyly hinted that it was only a matter of time until legendary pokemon were added to pokemon go. in a new interview with the brazilian newspaper o globo, a niantic official seemingly confirmed that we'd be seeing legendary pokemon and a lot more this summer. mathieu de fayet, niantic's vice president of strategic partnerships, was asked how pokemon go planned to keep players interested, as only one in ten people who downloaded the game are still playing regularly. de fayet responded that they had to postpone some of the original plans due to the game's immense popularity, but that they were working on some things for this summer. among niantic's plans were both legendary pokemon and the ability to battle other players. de fayet also said that they wanted to give more value to the teams players choose at the beginning of the game, as well as building social interactions between players. he noted that niantic's other game ingress had done so well because it encouraged players to interact with each other online and in the real world. de fayet's comments are the strongest confirmation that legendary pokemon will be added to pokemon go in the intermediate future. while we still don't have a specific date, de fayet's comments were a strong follow-up to niantic employee archit bhargava's comments during the webby awards that this summer would be "legendary" for pokemon go players. the united states is bracing for the release - as early as tomorrow- of up to three million classified state department messages sent between us embassies around the world. the website wikileaks is preparing to leak the huge pile of diplomatic cables, with the release having the potential to ''destabilise global security'' and ''jeopardise lives''. the new detail was found in an email sent by a senior us bureaucrat to two important us government committees yesterday. it will be the third and largest release of material allegedly given to wikileaks by the us soldier bradley manning, a middle east-based army intelligence analyst who has since been charged by us authorities. the latest release was announced earlier this week, but it was unclear what the material would be about. an email from an assistant defence secretary, elizabeth king, warns the us senate and house committees on armed services of the potential dangers. toronto - ontario is cutting out its fall report card in the latest move against marking children early and on a rigid scale of letters or numbers. instead, educators will be looking at new ways to evaluate students. ontario's decision to swap the first report card of the year for an informal progress report is part of a wider change to be unveiled formally next month. ontario's teachers' unions have pushed for the elimination of the fall report card which they say comes too early in the school year for teachers to make useful judgments. annie kidder, of people for education, says she is concerned if dropping the fall report card means parents aren't kept in the loop. the changes coming will also put a greater emphasis on learning skills rather than marks. the way tim geithner has structured the banking plan, the obama administration will, sooner or later, almost certainly be facing another aig bonuses-type of outrage. for example, dean baker told me that his biggest fear is that some sleazy character will make a fortune off the leverage given by the government, or that a bank will arrange an insider deal under which a front buys its assets at an inflated price, leaving the government with a big loss. if this happens, i can already hear the cries of the faux populists in the republican party, those same folks who created this crisis with their opposition to regulatory oversight of wall street. if they were still in charge, we'd be having one of these kinds of scandals every week. but they will be full of howling indignation that obama let this happen. those of us who are opposing this bank plan, in part because we are worried of just these kinds of scandals described above, will need to restrain ourselves from doing too much i-told-you-so-ing, because we will need to be helping to save the obama team from themselves. we need to be ready, though, to step into the moment with our own very aggressive plan to put the banks into receivership and break them up. no matter how populist republicans will want to pretend they are, they will never be willing to actually do something that progressive. if obama is willing to go there, and do it decisively, it will help obama to get over all the recriminations and saber-rattling that inevitably happens in such a moment. american superconductor corporation provides megawatt-scale solutions worldwide. the company operates in two segments, wind and grid. the wind segment designs wind turbine systems and licenses these designs to third parties under the windtec solutions brand. it supplies power electronics and software-based control systems, and provides customer support services to wind turbine manufacturers. this segment's design portfolio comprises a range of drivetrains and power ratings of 2 megawatts. the grid segment offers products and services that enable electric utilities and renewable energy project developers to connect, transmit, and distribute power under the gridtec solutions brand. it provides transmission planning services, which identify power grid congestion, poor power quality, and other risks; grid interconnection solutions for wind farms and solar power plants, power quality systems, and transmission and distribution cable systems; resilient electric grid systems, which provide protection against the adverse effects that follow the loss of critical substation facilities in urban areas; and ship protection systems, which reduce a naval ship's magnetic signature. this segment also offers flexible alternating current transmission system, a system that consists of power electronics and other static components used for controlling power flow and voltage in the ac transmission system; and standalone fault current limiters, which act as surge protectors for the power grid. american superconductor corporation was founded in 1987 and is headquartered in ayer, massachusetts. empress after escaping from her horrific husband, queen emporia and her kids must hide from his army at all costs -- even by teleporting to different planets. revisions when shibuya time-warps to 2388, high schooler daisuke and his friends are conscripted by ahrv agent milo to fight the hostile cyborg race, revisions. my first first love a college student reluctantly lets a group of his friends move into his house, where they experience love, friendship, and everything in between. nate bargatze: the tennessee kid comedian nate bargatze takes aim at the absurdity of everyday life in an approachable and deadpan stand-up set shot in duluth, georgia. the irishman martin scorsese's epic saga of organized crime in postwar america, as told by a mob hit man, stars robert de niro, al pacino and joe pesci. music teacher burned by his past, an emotionally troubled, small-town music teacher risks everything he has to reconnect with a now-famous former student. white lines when her brother is discovered dead, a manchester woman leaves her quiet life to travel to ibiza, where she seeks the truth about his disappearance. guillermo del toro presents 10 after midnight acclaimed academy award-winning filmmaker guillermo del toro curates this collection of sinister stories, each more horrifying than the next. two brisbane men charged with raping a male friend with a beer bottle have parted ways with their lawyer days after he made comments about the case in court. the pair, who cannot be named for legal reasons, are among four men aged between 19 and 21 charged with the rape at an australia day party in kedron this year. lawyer eugene o'sullivan leaves the brisbane magistrates court on monday after describing the alleged rape as a "jackass-type of thing". credit:fairfax media police claim the victim, 19, had passed out drunk in a bedroom when the men filmed the beer bottle assault and posted it on social media. in the brisbane magistrates court on monday, lawyer eugene o'sullivan said the "simulated rape" video was posted on facebook, describing the incident as a "jackass-type of thing". every day at planes of fame air museum, you can experience history - both the reliving of it and the making of it. when one of our planes flies, for most it is a rare and wonderful thing to witness. planes of fame air museum has maintained a fleet of flyable historic aircraft for over 60 years! the museum has operated these types of aircraft longer than the army air corps or air force did. planes of fame air museum truly is where aviation history lives. you too can experience history through planes of fame air museum. maybe you live too far to visit, but we hope this website gives you a taste of what we try to do here every day. and maybe someday, you will hear the roar, look up in the sky and see one of our planes overhead! prime, the first android to pass every turing test, was also the only survivor when earth's sun, sol, was destroyed. from the chaotic center of the galaxy, a relatively small black hole shot toward the solar system. it took mercury with it, and most of sol. while its light faded and the sun seemed to dance in the sky, and the last organic life perished, prime activated more androids. they existed together for centuries before they figured out how to move the earth to another star that could support biological life. they brought the earth and luna to the seven suns, and seeded many worlds with life. they came to be known as gods, and ruled for centuries until one of prime's children decided he wanted to be the only god. the seven suns is their story, and those of their descendants, both mortal and otherwise. can you survive the seven suns long enough to save them? hamas welcomed a decision by the un human rights council to investigate the circumstances of the calamitous idf raid on a gaza-bound aid flotilla in may. hamas spokesman sami abu zuhri said it was a move in the right direction, but that "israel must be obligated to honor the decisions of the investigation, and not be allowed to escape punishment". abu-zuhri also mentioned that establishing the goldstone committee had been a proper move in its time, "but the international community allowed israel to evade its legal ramifications and standing trial". fatah also welcomed the un decision. "it's time to punish israel's war crimes and make israel stop behaving as if it were above the law," the organization said in a statement. it also called for the lifting of the blockade on gaza. police in berlin say 123 officers were injured in clashes with leftist protesters over the redevelopment of a district in the east of the city. about 3,500 protesters marched through friedrichshain on saturday. some were masked and threw missiles, police said. the protest was the most violent in the past five years, they said. tensions have risen since moves began in june to evict squatters in the area. friedrichshain has undergone rapid gentrification in recent years. about 1,800 police were deployed at the protest, which began peacefully but escalated into violence. eighty-six people were arrested, police said. image copyright maurizio gambarini image caption protesters, some of them masked, waved flares from the roof of 94 rigaer strasse on saturday night squatters are refusing to leave part of a block of flats at 94 rigaer strasse. since june, squads of police have been monitoring the building day and night, with helicopters circling overhead. police fired tear gas as shop windows were shattered and police cars damaged. many of the neighbours live in housing collectives and sympathise with the squatters, who see themselves as a left-wing alternative to gentrification and rising rents. during the protest, some neighbours beat spoons against pots in support of the squatters. zone of the enders hd collection is headed to consoles on october 30th. zone of the enders hd collection, a bundle of two robotic action games from developer kojima productions, is headed to xbox 360 and playstation 3 on october 30th, publisher konami announced today. the bundle will include the original zone of the enders and its sequel, zone of the enders: the 2nd runner, each of which has received high resolution graphical updates. a demo for metal gear rising revengeance, the upcoming hack-and-slash from platinum games, will also be included. kojima revealed the official box art for the games earlier this month via twitter. during a zone of the enders hd collection event earlier this year, kojima productions announced that a sequel is in development. kojima, who produced the first two games, will play a supporting role during the initial phases of development, while the staff at kojima productions will handle the rest. first of all, this guy clearly knows what he's doing. he's practicing his trampoline skills, flipping, jumping and picking up momentum with every single jump. he's going to show the world who he is and he doesn't care who knows it. until a little girl comes along. she hangs off the trampoline and apparently has no sense of consequence. the person video taping the whole thing decides that this is a safe place for a little girl. everyone watching at home is tense as soon as she shows up. the little kid starts hanging off the trampoline as if there's not a guy exerting himself and picking up hundreds of pounds of force in the process. the guy actually performs a fail so hard that even if the little girl were not there, this video would be an amazing thing to watch. he flips upside down and lands feet first off of the trampoline. luckily, there was a little girl there to break his fall. looks like he'll live to jump another day. euro mps have rejected a far-reaching package of telecoms reforms because they say internet users need better protection from being disconnected. the meps backed an amendment saying web surfers' rights could not be infringed without a ruling by a judicial body. the vote, overwhelmingly in favour, is also seen as a protest against a tough french draft law targeting people who illegally download copyright material. the "three strikes" bill is still going through the french parliament. the meps' vote in strasbourg on wednesday came despite an agreement hammered out earlier with eu ministers. if eu telecoms ministers accept the meps' amendment at a meeting next month they can avoid the "conciliation" process - the last stage before a piece of legislation is scrapped. controversial moves the telecoms package aims to ensure that regulatory measures are harmonised across the eu and that consumers' rights are protected in the fast-moving digital age. operators would be required to make information on tariffs and contractual terms more transparent. the controversial french bill would allow internet providers to disconnect people caught downloading music illegally after two previous warnings. if passed, the bill would set a tough global precedent in cracking down on internet piracy. the music industry has been calling for stricter laws as revenues have fallen. rangers midfielder ryan jack has had his red card against kilmarnock overturned after a scottish fa hearing. the 25-year-old was sent off for violent conduct after a clash with kirk broadfoot during the 1-1 draw at ibrox on 25 october. rangers appealed against the decision and the sfa's disciplinary tribunal downgraded the offence to unsporting behaviour. it is the second time this season jack has seen a red card rescinded. the rangers midfielder was sent off against hibernian in august but also successfully won an appeal. against kilmarnock, referee alan muir initially booked jack and broadfoot but then upgraded the rangers midfielder to a red after consulting with the fourth official. the 1-1 draw at ibrox was pedro caixinha's last game in charge before he was sacked as manager, with the ibrox club now working through the process of appointing a successor. bbc news, athens a man who decapitated his girlfriend and paraded the head around a village on the greek island of santorini is now fighting for his life in hospital. athanassios arvanitis, a 31-year-old chef, was shot five times by police before his arrest. he has wounds to his lungs and is in intensive care. the authorities believe the deadly rampage was triggered by his dismissal as a chef in a hotel. three women injured during the police chase are said to be out of danger. the trail of violence began when the man used a butcher's knife to decapitate his girlfriend's dog on the balcony of their home in the village of vourvoulos, near santorini's main town fira. next, mr arvanitis allegedly killed his girlfriend, a 25-year-old teacher called adamantia karkali, by stabbing her in the armpit. he then cut her head off and began parading it around the streets. during a dramatic chase, mr arvanitis tried and failed to behead a policeman. he was then shot five times and arrested. doctors at santorini's medical centre say that despite his injuries they found it almost impossible to restrain him. two women doctors knocked from their motorbike by mr arvanitis as he tried to get away in a police jeep are said to be out of danger, as is a greek woman tourist who was hit by a ricocheting bullet as she watched the sunset. people living in santorini say they have not witnessed such savagery on this iconically beautiful island since the germans carried out executions during the world war ii occupation. when you come across a qr code, the experience isn't exactly seamless. you tap your barcode scanner, aim at the funny looking blocks, then watch a link open up in your browser. then you're either looking at a website or downloading an app. the physical web is an effort to better connect phones to the world around them. in this case, rather than qr codes, the functionality centers around eddystone bluetooth low-energy beacons. merely standing near one is enough to trigger a notification on your device. support for the physical web is already available for chrome on ios. we also saw web bluetooth api support roll out to the chrome dev channel for android several month ago. now it's working its way into the chrome 49 beta. when a new user walks by a beacon for the first time, a notification appears prompting them to enable the physical web. going forward, they then see a list of nearby urls inside a non-intrusive notification that appears without vibrating their phone. after another round of continued testing, the functionality should appear in the stable build of chrome once version 49 starts hitting devices. the argentine international signed for city over the weekend after finalising a move from atletico madrid - a club he never actually played for following an earlier summer switch from malaga. the 32-year-old was reunited with his former boss manuel pellegrini, who will be disappointed to learn that he is unlikely to be able to use him until november. demichelis suffered the injury in training and immediately underwent scans following the incident, but that has shown that surgery will not be required. however, the loss of demichelis will be a blow to pellegrini - given captain vincent kompany is still sidelined with a groin injury and micah richards is still not fully fit. aside from joleon lescott and matija nastasic, pellegrini could call on spanish midfielder javi garcia, or belgian youngster dedryck boyata. san diego chargers wide receiver malcom floyd will attempt to rehab and play through his torn labrum in 2015, according to nfl network's ian rapoport. floyd suffered the injury diving for a deep philip rivers pass in week 9's loss to the chicago bears. the 34-year-old receiver is amid his last season in the nfl and would prefer to go out on his own terms, but the timetable for his return is not yet clear despite his willingness to play through the injury. the chargers have already lost keenan allen for the season, leaving stevie johnson and dontrelle inman at the top of the chargers' wide receiver depth chart in the event floyd is also off the field. fantasy impact: it's difficult to imagine floyd's return at all, let alone a return that allows him to play at any level of effectiveness due to an injury that would hinder his ability to reach above his head. if floyd is able to play through the pain and produce at his usual level, he still isn't an inspiring fantasy option despite putting up respectable numbers earlier in the season. johnson, antonio gates and danny woodhead ought to remain the focus in a prolific chargers passing attack, giving fantasy owners the freedom to cut the ties on floyd in leagues of all formats. several rockets launched from syria have hit the eastern lebanese town of hermel, a bastion of the shia group hezbollah, reportedly killing at least one person and wounding several others. tuesday's incident was the latest in a series of cross-border rocket attacks on shia areas of lebanon. al jazeera's hoda abdel hamid, reporting from lebanon, said the victim was reportedly killed while driving when about 10 rockets hit the town. "it appears that the person who died was driving through the city of hermel when one of these rockets fired from across the border from syria hit the car," our correspondent said. attacks on the northern lebanese area have escalated since syrian troops backed by fighters from hezbollah, a staunch ally of syrian president bashar al-assad, retook the central syrian town of qusayr last week. "it is the first time since the fall of qusayr that hermel was hit," abdel hamid said. lebanon is sharply divided along sectarian lines, which have been emphasised by the conflict in syria. the sunni-led march 14 opposition supports the sunni-dominated revolt against assad, while hezbollah and its allies back assad's forces. during a press conference monday ahead of the us national team's world cup qualifier against honduras, jurgen klinsmann dropped the note that the us will play a previously unannounced friendly in august. he just didn't say who the national team would be playing, or where. but fifa's official website lists bosnia-herzegovina as the opponent on august 13, and reports out of the balkan nation corroborates that date, with sarajevo as the location. of course, the bosnia friendly had been rumored to be taking place at some point in 2013, and with klinsmann mentioning the friendly coming on the back of a very busy summer, with the world cup qualifiers, the upcoming gold cup this month and next, and more qualifiers in the fall, it appears the bosnia friendly will be another test for the national team. the usmnt's other scheduled friendly in the coming months is on july 5 against guatemala in san diego, a tuneup for the gold cup. china state media says six local officials have been punished after a tourist was dragged from his beijing hotel and beaten after being mistaken for a petitioner. the xinhua news agency says a tourist from luoyang, in henan province, was staying at a hotel earlier this month near the state bureau of letters and calls, where petitioners may file complaints against government authorities. the report said several men entered the tourist's room and dragged him and three petitioners into a van, where he was severely beaten, driven back to his home town and dumped on the roadside. xinhua cited local authorities as saying employees of a beijing security firm hired by the luoyang letters and calls bureau were responsible for the beating. local officials often try to prevent complaints being lodged against them in the capital to preserve their area's image. one official has been removed from his post, another suspended and four given warnings, while a senior official apologized to the tourist. under chinese law, people can petition government authorities at various levels abut injustices or unresolved disputes. many petition beijing officials after getting no satisfaction from local authorities. javier duarte, the fugitive former governor of mexico's veracruz state who is accused of running a corruption ring to pilfer from state coffers, was detained in guatemala on saturday. a statement from mexico's federal attorney general's office said mr duarte was detained in the municipality of panajachel, in solola department, in coordination with guatemalan police and the local interpol office. it said he is wanted on suspicion of money laundering and organised crime, and prosecutors directed the foreign relations department to request mr duarte's extradition via its guatemalan counterpart. mr duarte was governor of veracruz from 2010 until he left office in october last year, shortly before the scheduled end of his term. at the time he said he was doing so in order to face the allegations against him, which he denied. actress kim min-hee is being accused of being in an affair with director hong sang-soo. a media reported that kim min-hee and hong sang-soo were secretly seeing each other. according to the report, they first met during "right now, wrong then" and have been in an inappropriate relationship since then. hong sang-soo is a married man who married a in 1985 and has a daughter in college. kim min-hee has always been hong's muse. they have worked on 3 films together and the inappropriate relationship between them is known to some in the movie world, although everyone tried to keep it on the down low. the two even went to cannes together. apparently it was for hong sang-soo's latest movie but they were seen out together. apparently their families know about their relationship. kim min-hee is currently working alone with a personal manager and hong sang-soo hasn't been heard from ever since he left home. get festive with fun halloween crafts. make a ghost and pumpkin tree that's a perfect decoration indoors or out. turn your windows into a giant pumpkin with a diy halloween window decoration using orange tissue paper and posterboard. skip the boring orange plastic pumpkin candy pails and help your children create a ghost candy bag or a pumpkin treat bag from household items. there are so many halloween craft possibilities at your fingertips that you could start october 1 and still not get through them all. and don't be afraid to take a more general approach to your decorations. by not being so halloween specific with carved pumpkins and spooky scarecrows on the front lawn, you can use fall-themed decorations that will last you to thanksgiving. get the kids involved in the crafting and turn them into your personal designers for this activity. australia needs the australian greens in parliament. we are a party with a philosophy we stand by, a party with its eyes fixed firmly on caring for people and the environment as we meet the 21st century challenges. no one should be left behind as we embrace the environmental, social and economic opportunities in everything from high-speed rail, high-speed broadband, medical technology, solar power, food production, communication, education and technical innovation. the australian greens will deliver a caring australia, a safer climate and a proud global reputation. we are the strong, honest party who will stand up to those who protect their own interests to the detriment of the environment and deny everyone else a fair go. it is the greens who will stand up for what matters. god save the queen god save our gracious queen, long live our noble queen, god save the queen! send her victorious, happy and glorious, long to reign over us; god save the queen! o lord our god arise, scatter her enemies and make them fall; confound their politics, frustrate their knavish tricks, on thee our hopes we fix, oh, save us all! thy choicest gifts in store on her be pleased to pour; long may she reign; may she defend our laws, and ever give us cause to sing with heart and voice, god save the queen! not in this land alone, but be god's mercies known, from shore to shore! lord make the nations see, that men should brothers be, and form one family, the wide world over from every latent foe, from the assassins blow, god save the queen! o'er her thine arm extend, for britain's sake defend, our mother, prince, and friend, god save the queen! dzhokhar tsarnaev, the accused in boston marathon bombing, who was found hiding in a boat days after the blasts, left a handwritten message describing the attack as retribution for us wars in muslim countries, an american news channel has reported. the cbs news report on thursday cited anonymous sources and said that tsarnaev used a pen to write the message on an interior wall of the boat, where police found him bleeding from bullet wounds four days after the april 15 bombing. the note summed up with the idea that "when you attack one muslim, you attack all muslims", cbs news reported. al jazeera is unable to independently verify this report and reuters news agency said that an fbi spokeswoman in boston did not immediately return a call seeking comment. the cbs report said tsarnaev, 19, described his older brother and fellow suspect tamerlan tsarnaev, 26, who died in a gun battle with police, as "a martyr". "basically, the note says the bombings were retribution for the us crimes against muslims in places like iraq and afghanistan and that the victims of the boston bombing were 'collateral damage,' the same way innocent victims have been collateral damage in us wars around the world," john miller, cbs news reporter and a former spokesman for the fbi, said. the bombings at the finish line of the world-famous marathon killed three people and injured 264 others. the fbi identified the ethnic chechen brothers as suspects from video and pictures at the scene. dzhokhar tsarnaev was arrested in watertown, massachusetts, on april 19 after a daylong manhunt and lockdown of much of the boston area. he is being held in a prison hospital west of boston and faces charges that could carry the death penalty if he is convicted. the girls have been steadily dropping teaser images over the past few days with one set that looks perfectly sweet to go along with their upcoming first album 'ice cream cake', while the other set takes on a darker vibe. the latest group photos released today are of the first variety as the girls look sweet as ice cream with their light colored hair and contacts. to celebrate their comeback, the ladies will be streaming a show called 'red velvet ice cream cake tv' through naver music on the 18th at 9pm kst, which will show not only live performances of their new songs, but also self-camera footage and clips of the members discussing their thoughts about their new release. shinee's minho will be joining on this stream as the special mc, so it'll be a treat for sm fans. if you just can't wait until the 18th, you won't have to since the album will be released online on the 17th, one day earlier than the offline release of the album! my customer has created a windows vista sidebar gadget and wants to know if there's a way to force this gadget to appear at the top of the sidebar and prevent the user from moving or removing it. i applaud this company for having written the most awesome sidebar gadget in the history of the universe. it's so compelling that it should override the user's preferences and force itself into the upper right corner of their screen in all perpetuity. unfortunately, windows was not prepared for a program as awesome as this, and there is no supported way to force a gadget into a particular position and prevent the user from moving or removing it. city council has once again balked at the idea of allowing calgarians to raise hens in their yards. the proposal to permit the chickens in 20 backyards for one year was scratched in a 9-6 vote on monday. the pilot project was pitched by councillors ray jones and gian-carlo carra with the idea that if it worked, it could expand throughout the city. jones and carra first suggested the plan earlier this year, saying there is growing support among calgarians for wider access to sustainable, local food sources. but the idea didn't get off the ground. some councillors said they wanted to know more before approving the project. backyard chicken coops have been a tough sell in calgary. the idea has been debated several times in the past, including another proposal in 2010 which was rejected. several cities across canada allow backyard chicken coops, including victoria and vancouver, while edmonton and red deer have recently approved pilot programs. councils in toronto and halifax have opted not to allow raising chickens in those cities. a minister in the pakistani province of balochistan has been sacked over a "drunken brawl" at a lahore theatre. police say they detained jaffer george for unruly behaviour and disrupting a play on saturday night. mr george denies the charges and is free on bail. video footage appeared to show him climbing on the stage. as a member of the tiny christian minority he is free to drink alcohol, which is banned for muslims. drinking in public is illegal in pakistan. 'obstruction' mr jaffar served as minister without portfolio in the balochistan government after being elected to a reserved seat for religious minorities. he was arrested on saturday night, a police official in the qilla gujjar singh distict of lahore, majir bashir, told the bbc. officers detained him "for drinking alcohol and repeatedly obstructing a stage play at a theatre", according to a complaint lodged with the police by the theatre management. local news channel express tv broadcast footage of the incident in which two men - apparently mr george and a friend - are seen approaching the stage during the performance. the men then climb onto the stage and engage a female performer in conversation. the management complained that mr george and his friend did this repeatedly, frustrating attempts to confine them to their seats and let the show continue, according to police. mr george was sacked by balochistan chief minister nawab aslam raisani on sunday after he received a report from the punjab government. the former minister says he is being victimised by the punjab government. workers at australia's major airports will face additional screening measures as part of a security crackdown. the tighter controls come after authorities foiled an alleged terror plot to bring down a plane leaving sydney airport in july. australian baggage handlers and airport staff working in restricted zones will now be subject to random tests for traces of explosives. inspections will also be carried out on employees' belongings and vehicles. the changes follow concerns raised by union and intelligence experts about the screening of staff, many of whom are on casual contracts. "these measures strengthen existing controls to ensure airport workers are authorised, properly identified and appropriately trained before entering secure airside areas," transport minister darren chester said. the government said about 140,000 workers had access to secure zones in airports. one senator, nick xenophon, said australia should adopt even stricter measures, such as a us-style system of mandatory checks for all staff. "our government's approach to random inspections is a joke," he said. tragic news from monterrey, mexico this afternoon as we have reports of the death of one of the players attending thunderstruck v. details are scarce as of right now, and the identity of the deceased has not yet been released. the player was said to be there for the guilty gear competition. as a result the tournament has been suspended and all participants have been asked to leave the venue area. thunderstruck is a capcom pro tour event, and the street fighter 5 tournament is currently down to the final eight competitors. there is no news as of now as to whether or not the rest of the event will be played. our deepest condolences go out to the friends and family of this fellow fighting game community member. we'll continue to update this story as any new information becomes available. a hailstorm in athens on tuesday gave hope to firemen battling at two fronts to keep the fire at dervenohoria, northwest of athens, under control. the fire, raging out of control since saturday, has swallowed an estimated 1,200 acres of pine forest in a mountainous area, with erratic winds defeating firefighters and army conscripts. on tuesday, 250 firefighters, soldiers and volunteers battled with flames along with six planes and four helicopters as well as water tank trucks and earthmovers to help keep residential areas safe. the storm that wreaked havoc in athens gave hope to the firefighters struggling to keep the flames under control. the canadair jets and helicopters departed letting nature take its course. winds on tuesday were also weaker than in the previous days allowing firefighters to keep the fire under control. the eleven ships of the first fleet arrived in sydney cove on 26 january 1788 under the command of governor arthur phillip. the library has an unrivalled collection of original journals, logbooks, letters, paintings, prints, drawings and books covering the voyage of the first fleet, the mutiny on the bounty, matthew flinders' mapping of the australian coastline and other important events from the early years of terra australis. the first fleet over 252 days, the first fleet brought over 1500 men, women and children half way around the world from england to new south wales. on 13 may 1787, the fleet of 11 ships set sail from portsmouth, england. led by captain arthur phillip, this historic convoy, which later became known as the first fleet, carried officers, crew, marines and their families, and convicts from britain to a distant and little known land on the far side of the world. senate president stephen parry has sensationally quit the upper house after advice from the british home office that he is a dual citizen. in a major blow to the turnbull government - and coming just days after the loss of deputy prime minister barnaby joyce and cabinet minister fiona nash - senator parry said he would quit as president and as a tasmanian senator immediately and clear the way for a replacement to be named. his successor is likely to be richard colbeck, a former senator and tourism minister under prime minster malcolm turnbull who lost his seat in the 2016 election. the decision comes just a day after senator parry revealed he faced constitutional issues and leaves unanswered questions about why he had not previously come forward to reveal his british citizenship through his uk-born father. president trump is growing increasingly irritated with his team for their handling of the russia investigation, and he's taken many of his frustrations out on his white house counsel, don mcgahn, a loyal trump defender and early campaign supporter. politco reports that trump laid into mcgahn during an oval office meeting monday for failing to do more to dispel the investigation. meanwhile, the russia case has been passed onto trump's personal lawyer, marc kasowitz, leaving mcgahn to work on more routine wh duties. between the lines: trump's willingness to turn mcgahn reveals how eager he is to scapegoat someone for his legal dilemma, and underscores an issue that has plagued the wh for months: "no top aide is immune from the president's anger or being called out in front of colleagues, even long-time loyalists like mcgahn" writes politico. mortimer taylor coleridge is a unique man. with a mind of rare mathematical precision, he is obsessed with imposing order upon the chaos of every day life. a once brilliant student of evolutionary biology at columbia university, he has turned his back on a promising academic career to devote his life to selling hot dogs at papaya queen. there, mortimer uses his keen intellect to become the quickest and most efficient of hot dog men, devising a numerical-based system to sell hot dogs which maximizes both time and effort. one day while watching tv, mortimer comes upon vh1, and his life is instantly transformed. while watching behind the music: no doubt, he decides that he and gwen stefani are soul mates, destined to be together. when mortimer discovers that her favorite food is a papaya queen hot dog, he dedicates his life to preparing for the day, which he knows will come, when gwen stefani will walk into the papaya queen where he works, order a frankfurter and fall in love with him. dreaming of gwen stefani takes our culture's obsession with celebrity to its logical-or illogical-conclusion. imagine having a google-analytics-style dashboard for your library building: number of visits, what patrons browsed, what parts of the library were busy during which parts of the day, and more. measure the future is working to make that happen by using open-hardware based sensors that can collect data about building usage that is now invisible. making these invisible occurrences explicit will allow librarians to make strategic decisions that create more efficient and effective experiences for their patrons. our goal is to enable libraries and librarians to make the tools that measure the future of the library as physical space. we are going to build open tools using open hardware and open source software, and then provide open tutorials so that libraries everywhere can build the tools for themselves. two powerful blasts at a military base to the west of tehran have killed at least 17 people and wounded many more, local media reports say. the semi-official fars news agency carried a statement by the revolutionary guard corps which said that the blasts occurred on saturday in an ammunition depot at a base in bidganeh, near the city of karaj. the explosions, which were originally reported as in a gas-distribution station, hit "a military base" west of the capital, alireza jane, responsible for security issues in the tehran governor's office, told the isna news agency. witnesses told al jazeera that the blasts took place close to the mountains in the village where the revolutionary guard base is located. the red crescent has deployed search and rescue crews to the scene, and over 15 ambulances have arrived at the location. the blasts shattered the windows of residential neighbourhoods in the western suburbs of tehran, witnesses told the afp news agency. they were heard up to 45km away. pirates have boarded a luxury french yacht off the coast of somalia, taking all its 30 crew hostage, french officials and the ship's owners say. they say the ponant was seized in the gulf of aden and had no passengers on board at the time. france's government said it had launched a piracy alert plan, mobilising all resources in the area. somali coastal waters are among the most hazardous in the world, despite the presence of us navy patrols there. last year, pirates seized more than 25 ships in the area. 'act of piracy' the ponant - an 850-tonne three-masted yacht - was sailing back to the mediterranean from the seychelles when it was seized, officials said. "as far as we know, no shots have been fired," french military spokesman christophe prazuck was quoted as saying by the afp news agency. the yacht's owners - the shipping group cma cgm - confirmed that one of its vessels had been seized. the company said that the majority of the crew were french nationals. french prime minister francois fillon later on friday described the incident as "a blatant act of piracy". "the defence and foreign ministries are mobilised to act as quickly as possible. "i hope in the coming minutes or hours to try to win the freedom of these hostages," mr fillon said. french and allied forces stationed in the area were put under alert. france has troops in nearby djibouti and also participates in a multinational naval force that patrols this part of the indian ocean. the hijacked yacht can take up to 64 passengers and is designed for cruising in some style. it has four decks, two restaurants and also indoor and outdoor luxury lounges. noida: aam aadmi party member chandra mohan sharma, who was found 'burnt to death' in his car in greater noida three months ago, has been caught alive. tv reports quoted noida police as saying that sharma, an rti activist, was arrested from bangalore. the arrest followed reports that the aap member had been spotted in nepal. after receiving the inputs, the police had sent teams to karnataka as well as nepal and its bordering areas to search for the 38-year-old sharma suspecting he had staged his death. a report had quoted sharma's wife savita as saying that the activist was allegedly living with a woman. she, too, believed that the aap member had faked his death. the police said the burnt body found in the car was of someone else and have now begun looking afresh at the case. according to savita, the police tracked down sharma after putting his mobile on tracker. bubblesoft, the developers of the popular bubbleupnp app, have published a server equivalent for android. previously, you could run a bubbleupnp server on windows, mac, linux, raspberry pi, or a nas. then you could use the player app on android to access or share your local media. now your android devices can also be used as a server, but with several important caveats. at least if you know where to find the app. as you might expect, it's pretty minimalistic and not made for hand-holding. and, even to the extent you might know what you're doing, you do not want to be using your daily driver devices as bubbleupnp servers. it needs to be running persistently, and it will use a lot of battery. when media is being accessed, it will burn a hole in your pocket. now if you have a device that you could use for this purpose, this is good news for you. part of the intent behind this app is to get it running on devices that would be more appropriate, like the fire tv and nexus player. or if you have a device with enough cpu power and perpetual access to a charging cord that you aren't using, it could suffice. even in that case, though, bubblesoft advises against using any android hardware as a server if you have an alternative. this is why you will not be finding it in the play store. reviews would be negative, complaints would roll in about overheating devices, and bubblesoft could land themselves into trouble with google. as long as you understand all of that and still want it, go ahead and use the server app! you can download the apk at bubblesoft's website. the stage lights had barely dimmed at the xbox one event before the internet started tripping over itself with questions about how the second-hand market was expected to operate -- or if there was going to be one at all. microsoft assured us there would be, but aside from whispers of a used game "activation fee" the finer details were kept under wraps. we may know a little more now, however, as mcv claims to have heard specifics from retailers who have been briefed by redmond on the trade-in process. allegedly, shops that wish to buy and sell a title will need to be hooked up to a microsoft database so that access to the game can be removed from the previous owner's account and transferred to a new one. a retailer can sell the game for whatever it likes, but the system will ensure that a cut goes to publisher as well as microsoft. it all sounds fairly logical, but who knows? the truth could be even more complicated. photo courtesy of 19 action news. pat mahaney after the beating last august. a north college hill, oh man who was the victim of a brutal beating by a group of "bored" teenagers last august has died. the hamilton county prosecutors office confirmed that 46-year-old pat mahaney passed away on friday morning, less than a year after receiving a vicious beating that caused him to suffer internal bleeding and put him in the hospital for four days. the cause of death is still unknown and results from mahaney's autopsy will not be released for several weeks. the man was assaulted on aug. 11, 2012 in north college hill by a group of teenagers, ages 13 and 14, who told police they were bored and looking for something to do. north college hill police chief gary foust told abc that the juveniles jumped mahaney from behind and hit him in the head with a six-pack of beer he had just bought. "as they were approaching the individual they actually discussed this event, before actually doing the event," foust said. six teens were arrested in relation to the attack and charged with felonious assault and aggravated riot. three of the six teenagers pleaded guilty to the felonious assault charges after prosecutors agreed to drop the aggravated riot charges, abc reported. should the autopsy reveal that mahaney's death was caused or contributed to by the beating he received last year, the youngsters could face additional charges. this is a front sight block for a henry h001 rifle. this is made to accommodate a suppressed lever action rifle. this front sight brings the mag tube down so you can clear the suppressor to load it and it extends the height of the front sight post to be used with a skinner peep sight attached to the dovetail on the receiver. sanding will be necessary for the barrel fit and you might need to modify the screw's counterbore depth depending on its length for proper attachment to the barrel. this will be too tall of a sight with the standard rear sight and if you don't plan on suppressing it, the mag tube will be brought down so keep that in mind. files are included if you wanted to modify it to your own desires. two explosions have rocked a police station in afghanistan's southern city of kandahar, killing at least two policemen, officials say. they say about 30 people - including civilians - were injured when two suicide bombers detonated their bombs in quick succession inside the station. us-led and afghan forces have been battling taleban insurgents in the region in recent weeks. in june, at least 350 rebels were freed during a jailbreak from kandahar jail. 'general targeted' "there were two suicide bombers who blew themselves up inside the police headquarters one after another," ahmad wali karzai, head of kandahar's provincial council, was quoted as saying by the afp news agency. the bombers targeted a senior border police commander, general abdul razaaq, who was injured in the attacks, reports say. earlier reports said at least six people had been killed in the blasts. police sealed off the area shortly after the explosions. kandahar is one of the key battlegrounds of the current rebel insurgency against the afghan government and troops from nato and a us-led coalition. in a separate development, a suicide bomber attacked a nato convoy in the western city of herat but caused no casualties, officials say. the us-led coalition said its forces had killed more than 10 insurgents in an operation in the eastern province of khost on saturday. afghanistan has seen rising levels of violence in recent months. there are about 70,000 foreign troops in afghanistan, most of them serving under nato's command. benjamin smith, 19, has been co-opted by the wales green party council to fill the second deputy spokesperson role in the leadership team. the position was previously left empty when the previous deputy leader, grenville ham, stepped up to take over as leader of the party after alice hooker-stroud stood down in march. smith was born in york in 1997 to a liberal vicar and nurse. his family later moved to plymouth where he was raised and became active within the green party. he moved to wales to study stage management and technical theatre at the royal welsh college of music and drama and has just finished his second year of study. benjamin is now the youngest deputy leader of any uk political party and the only one to be a current full time student. he will be deputy spokesperson until the wales green party leadership election in 2018 where he will have to re-stand, as will the other members of the leadership team. sporting retro florida panthers threads, a red cooper helmet, and a waxed handlebar mustache, 94-year-old rec-league hockey player mark sertich looks like the epitome of old-time hockey. it's fitting, as the world war ii veteran has played the game for 85 years. he even celebrated his 94th birthday july 18th in the place he loves most - the arena - accompanied by family and friends. sertich laces up three to four times a week with duluth, minn. firefighters in pick-up games of shinny, reports the duluth news tribune's jimmy lovrien. sertich never takes a shift off, as his opponents can attest. "he's not just doddering around out there; he's actually playing a pretty good game," retired firefighter dane youngblom said. although the games don't allow contact, the timeless skater is still vulnerable to injuries, including a broken rib and a punctured lung from a collision. he's also spit out the odd tooth. true to the sport's ideals, though, no wound discourages the man who's possibly the world's oldest player from mucking about in front of the net to tuck in the odd biscuit. at a spry 90 years old, sertich's notoriety on the ice - paired with his acute vision, powerful skating, accurate passing, and scoring touch - even earned him a tryout with the minnesota wild. although the team eventually passed on his services, denying sertich the possibility to play on the biggest stage in the nhl, he still suits up whenever he can, whether there's an audience or not. the ageless wonder plans to keep skating until he physically can't. demonstrating emotion, heart, grit, toughness, skill, and poise, sertich embodies the essence of ice hockey. a man suspected of breaking into cars in southeast portland was arrested monday, police said. officers responded to southeast ninth avenue and bidwell street on the report of car break-ins in the neighborhood. when officers arrived they contacted three people, one of whom ran away from police officers, said sgt. pete simpson, spokesman for the portland police bureau. with the help of a police dog, officers located deiondre stephen simmons, 18, and arrested him. police said they found items taken in the car prowls in simmons' possession. simmons was booked into multnomah county jail on charges of unlawful entry into a motor vehicle and interfering with a peace officer. community members can find tips to prevent becoming a car prowl victim by visiting the city of portland's office of neighborhood involvement crime prevention page. manchester united midfielder paul pogba's hamstring injury will keep him out "long term", says manager jose mourinho. the 24-year-old france playmaker limped off 19 minutes into the reds' champions league win over basel and he has missed the past four games at old trafford. it was initially thought pogba would be out for between a month and six weeks following the injury on 12 september. mourinho would not give a specific timescale on his return. mourinho said he "does not speak about long-term injuries" but was more hopeful on the fitness of defenders phil jones and antonio valencia. "i cannot have hope, like with jones or valencia who i can see in training and hope for a positive answer," added the portuguese. pogba's fellow midfielders michael carrick and marouane fellaini also look set to miss saturday's home game against crystal palace. the early part of the 20th century saw the city of detroit, michigan, rise to prominence on the huge growth of the auto industry and related manufacturers. the 1940s were boom years of development, but the decade was full of upheaval and change, as factories re-tooled to build war machines, and women started taking on men's roles in the workplace, as men shipped overseas to fight in world war ii. the need for workers brought an influx of african-americans to detroit, who met stiff resistance from whites who refused to welcome them into their neighborhoods or work beside them on an assembly line. a race riot took place over three days in 1943, leaving 34 dead and hundreds injured. after world war ii ended, the demand for workers dried up, and detroit started plotting its postwar course, an era of big automobiles and bigger highways to accommodate them. a millionaire bureaucrat in uttar pradesh, yadav singh, will be investigated by the cbi in connection with his massive wealth. a special investigation team or sit on black money has asked the cbi to take over the case against mr singh, a government chief engineer who has allegedly racked up thousands of crores illegally. assets worth rs 10,000 crore, impossible on a government salary, were found during tax raids at mr singh's home in noida in december. sources told ndtv that the sit had asked the uttar pradesh government to hand over his case to the cbi but nothing was done. during raids, income tax officers found diamonds worth rs. 100 crore, two kilos of gold, crores in cash and 20 properties to mr singh's name. the team also found documents of 40 fake companies in his wife's name. the source of his fabulous wealth could be a scam worth crores, officials believe. mr singh was once in charge of the noida, greater noida and yamuna expressway authorities. he began in 1980 as junior engineer, and in two decades, had shot up to chief engineer. in 2012, the samajwadi party government suspended him for alleged corruption. a few months later, he was allegedly reinstated with even more powers. the audubon aquarium of the americas recently launched a new guest dive program that gives certified scuba divers and snorkelers a chance to swim with the fishes. the new maya dive adventure offers guests a 45-minute taste of the caribbean without leaving new orleans. divers swim in the 132,000-gallon great maya reef exhibit filled thousands of yellow-tailed snapper, cownose sting rays, caribbean spiny lobsters, angel fish and thousands of other colorful reef fish. guest dive programs have become a popular offering at aquariums around the country over the past few years, giving visitors a one-to-one nature experience while raising additional money for the facilities. the new orleans aquarium, which opened in 1990, has had, since its inception, a staff of volunteer scuba divers who help clean the exhibits and feed the fish. but the new maya dive adventure is the first time its underwater habitats have been open to the public. the dives are only available to certified scuba divers. for those without a c-card, the aquarium lets snorkelers get wet by slipping into the 78-degree water and swimming face-to-face with aquatic life while hovering over 30-foot-long glass tunnel. a survey of 20,000 people in 11 countries done by aimia inc. suggests a minority of them were satisfied with the rewards they get in exchange for sharing personal information with businesses. the montreal-based company said 31 per cent of the canadian respondents rated their personal information as "highly valuable" and 26 per cent said that they expect better service and benefits in return for sharing it. only eight per cent of the canadian respondents felt they get better offers as a result of sharing the information. aimia executive david johnson says companies have an opportunity to build meaningful relationships with their customers but the "golden moment" will quickly disappear if they fail to respond appropriately. the company has employees in 20 countries including canada and provides its clients with analytics of consumer data. the 11-country global survey compiled responses from australia, brazil, canada, several members of the european union, india, the united arab emirates and the united states. if you use the wii u as an example here, the appeal at its core was using the wii u gamepad as a tablet to control games. launch games like new super mario bros. and nintendo land didn't communicate why the wii u was a new or unique experience as well as the wii's launch selection did, and it absolutely contributed to the failure of the wii u to gain more traction and stabilize throughout its life cycle. "we have to do a better job from a software planning standpoint," fils-aime concluded, and it seems as though this was the thought when planning the legend of zelda: breath of the wild for the nx, which should be launching alongside the console when it finally releases. with a new library of content coming for the nx, the hope is that things will improve this time around for nintendo, and since it seems they're certainly on the right track, there's no reason the console couldn't be a smash hit, but only time will tell. microsoft showed the world yesterday its future with windows 10 and part of the conversation included a new browser which the company is calling 'project spartan'; that's a codename for now and may not be the final name. while the details were light yesterday and not all of the features were shown off, the company has provided a bit more information today. as we previously scooped, microsoft confirmed that spartan is a single browser that is designed to work on every windows 10 device and also includes a new engine too. the company says that the browser will retain legacy support for the enterprise by using the ie11 engine for legacy sites when needed and will use the new engine for modern web sites. based on the post, the best way to think about spartan and the new engine is that it is a browser built for the modern web that aims to do away with the legacy support. while it can render legacy sites when needed, it appears that you will lose out on the performance enhancements of the new engine when that scenario occurs. microsoft says that the new engine will be the default for windows 10, which isn't a major surprise. and for those of you who are curious about what the mobile interface will look like, the images above give us our best look yet including both dark and light themes. but for those of you who are hoping to see the new browser, it will not arrive in the next public release of windows 10 technical preview. while that will surely disappoint some, it's important that, when microsoft does release spartan, first impressions are fantastic as this is a new adventure for a team that's hoping to finally leave all the internet explorer baggage behind. ucl council, the university's governing body, has today reviewed all of the circumstances of the resignation of sir tim hunt as an honorary professor of the faculty of life sciences on 10 june. having seen the relevant correspondence, including the exchange of emails between sir tim and ucl, the council is satisfied that his resignation was accepted in good faith. council unanimously supports the decision taken by ucl's executive to accept the resignation. the subsequent extent of media interest was unprecedented, and council recognises the distress caused to sir tim and professor mary collins. council acknowledges that all parties agree that reinstatement would be inappropriate. council recognises that there are lessons to be learned around the communication process. consequently it has requested that the executive undertake a review of its communications strategy. detroit - the department of natural resources recently investigated a family that was allegedly keeping a fawn to eat for ramadan. according to an official report, the incident occurred in mid-to-late june when david schaumburger and james zellinger, conservation officers in dnr district 9, received a facebook complaint of a subject in possession of a whitetail fawn. comments on the photograph stated the deer was going to be eaten for the ramadan. the cos attempted to locate the subject in detroit and after numerous contacts in the neighborhood they finally talked to the suspect who stated he was in possession of a fawn but it was now gone. the cos left the location, but after about 20 minutes, an anonymous caller reported the suspect's vehicle dropping a fawn off in the middle of the street approximately two blocks from the suspect's house according to the report, the cos quickly returned to the scene, picked up the fawn and delivered it to a wildlife rehabilitator. the suspect was issued a citation for possession of a whitetail deer without a license, the report said. dnr district 9 includes genesee, lapeer, macomb, monroe, oakland, st clair and wayne counties. lawyers representing more than 150 tamil asylum seekers say they will use a high court hearing to try to quash any attempts to return them to india. the 157 asylum seekers, who were detained on an australian customs vessel for almost a month after being intercepted at sea, were expected to be flown from the cocos islands to the curtin detention centre in remote western australia on saturday night. prime minister tony abbott said on saturday the government will still do whatever it can to stop the boats. credit:alex ellinghausen the arrival is a political blow for the abbott government, which has promoted its success in preventing asylum seeker boats from reaching the australian mainland. prime minister tony abbott said on saturday the government remains committed to doing whatever it ''morally and ethically can'' to stop the boats. superhero action figures have been a hit in the toy aisles for decades, and villains around the world have been producing knock off bootleg versions since the beginning. i've gathered 25 of the most heroically terrible bootlegs the world has ever seen. if superhero action figures were all designed by rob liefield, this is what they would look like. in other words, now would be a great time to stop reading. these heroes are certainly not here to save the world. i warned you that things were going to get bad. if you managed to make it through all 25 photos without lasers shooting from your eyes, you deserve sincere congratulations. i urge you not to pass this article on to other unsuspecting readers, because remember, with great bootlegs comes great responsibility. former trinidad and tobago defender marvin andrews has made montrose his 14th club. the 39-year-old has signed at links park until the end of the season after leaving scottish league two rivals elgin city. andrews, capped 101 times for his country, made 14 appearances for city this season, scoring twice, for the side sitting bottom of the table. montrose lie five points above the black and whites in eighth. but elgin, who appointed jim weir as manager in november after barry wilson's resignation, have two games in hand. andrews had not played for elgin since 6 december and made his debut for his new club in saturday's 2-2 draw away to leaders arbroath. he first came to scotland in 1997 to join raith rovers - to whom he has returned twice - after playing for ecm motown, san juan jabloteh and malta carib alcons in his homeland. andrews went on to play for livingston, rangers, hamilton academical, queen of the south, wrexham, kirkintilloch rob roy and albion rovers before spending last season with forfar athletic in league one. meanwhile, polish midfielder leszek nowosielski has been released by montrose, because of travelling difficulties from the 22-year-old's home in turriff, having made only two substitute appearances. leszek had waited for three weeks for his international clearance before making his gable endies debut against east fife in december. the former poland under-20 international had previously been on the books of rodlo opole, odra opole, promien opalenica, ruch zdzieszowice, gks belchatow and warta poznan. his family's lawyer says police 'filed a wrong, false arrest charge' official: police had come to the boy's home to collect unpaid gas bill a police official was suspended after media reported the story a 9-month-old pakistani boy bawled as he was fingerprinted and booked in lahore on an attempted murder charge after his family members allegedly threw bricks at police trying to collect an unpaid bill. the ordeal started february 1 when several police officers and a bailiff went to a home hoping to get payment for a gas bill, said atif zulfikar butt, a senior police official in lahore. a scuffle ensued, during which the infant's father, one of his teenage sons and others in the residence severely injured some of the officials by tossing bricks their way, according to butt. that led authorities to seek out those in the house. an official document aired by cnn affiliate geo news shows charges of stoning and attempted murder. how and why the baby was implicated was unclear, though the lahore police official acknowledged that the child appeared in court wednesday and was booked as his grandfather held him. "the police filed a wrong, false arrest charge sheet and brought this innocent 9-month-old into this court room for an appearance," the family's lawyer, irfan tarar, said. following media coverage of the incident, punjab chief minister shahbaz sharif directed police to immediately suspend a pakistani official for registering the case against the baby boy, according to police. cnn's attempts to contact the family members were not successful. finn brunton, helen nissenbaum abstract computer-enabled data collection, aggregation, and mining dramatically change the nature of contemporary surveillance. refusal is not a practical option, as data collection is an inherent condition of many essential societal transactions. we present one vernacular response to this regime of everyday surveillance, a tactic we call obfuscation. with a variety of possible motivations, actors engage in obfuscation by producing misleading, false, or ambiguous data with the intention of confusing an adversary or simply adding to the time or cost of separating bad data from good. our paper develops a political theory of obfuscation, linking contemporary and historical cases to develop a descriptive account of obfuscation that is able to capture key commonalities in systems from radar chaff to bittorrent. alone across an untouched darkness gleamed the keeper's first sun, a singular point of conscious light fated to spread warmth into the empty void. through aeons beyond count this blinding beacon set to coalescing its incalculable energy before bursting forth the cataclysmic flare of supernova. from this inferno raced new beacons, star progeny identical to its parent, who journeyed an unlit ocean and settled in constellatory array. in time, they too would be made to propagate through supernova flame. so would this dazzling cycle of birth and rebirth repeat until all skies hewn of titan toil deigned to twinkle and shine. by this ageless crucible the star that mortals would come to call phoenix collapsed into being, and like its ancestors was thrust into an endless cosmos to find a place among its stellar brethren. yet curiosity toward that which the dimming elders comfort in the darkness consumed the fledgling, and so over long cycles it inquired and studied. it learned that among worlds both whole and broken would soon stir a nexus of remarkable variety locked in an enduring conflict of cosmic consequence, a plane which would find itself in need of more influence than a dying sun's distant rays could provide. thus this infant son of suns took terrestrial form, eagerly travelling to shine its warmth upon those who may need it most, and perhaps seize upon its solar destiny. saudi arabia is apparently miffed that a street in seoul is named after the capital of archrival iran and wants a street named for its own capital here. but iran is one of korea's most valuable trading partners, and seoul city officials are apparently less than enthusiastic about the prospect of a riyadh street evoking one of the most repressive regimes in the world. a foreign ministry official said saudi arabian state-run oil company aramco made the proposal to its korean subsidiary s-oil in march to name a street in the mapo district after riyadh. saudi officials feel the move would bolster bilateral relations and are also suggesting naming a street in the saudi capital after seoul -- a rarer honor since many saudi streets have no names at all. "mapo district officials asked us if naming the street after riyadh could cause any diplomatic problems, and we said no," the ministry official said. but district officials still have their doubts. following president park geun-hye's visit to tehran early this month, they are nervous that relations with the two theocracies, which are fighting several proxy wars in the mideast, must be handled with kid gloves. on monday, saudi billionaire prince al-waleed bin talal is visiting korea to meet with officials here. it remains to be seen if he will try to exert pressure over a matter that is essentially trivial. this was a case about a hugely important point of pure constitutional law, but it arrived at the supreme court in a blizzard of politics, acrimony, threats of violence against gina miller the woman at its heart, and some very personal press criticism of the judges about to hear it. like many supreme court cases it rapidly took on the feel of an academic seminar, often inaccessible and at times impenetrable to the non-lawyer. not a ratings winner then, but it has been a fine example of the rule of law and the british constitution in action. independent judges considering issues raised by citizens, exercising their right to have a decision of ministers scrutinised by a court to determine whether it is lawful or not. the proceedings have been unfailingly courteous and all of the key players have had their arguments carefully considered. that is not something that happens in every country around the world. so, even if the nation remains divided on the issue, it can take pride in the process by which it is being determined. earlier today, joystick reported that the 1993 snes version of tecmo super bowl will soon be re-released on playstation network and the xbox live arcade. the snes version was already a re-release of the original tecmo super bowl that was released in 1991 for the nes. at the time, it included upgraded visuals, minor tweaks and many bug fixes. the re-release on psn and xbla will include updated hd graphics, but can also be played in the original 16-bit mode. while an exact release date is not known at this time, it is clear that the game will include all teams, players and matches that were included in the original and that the game will be known as tecmo bowl throwback. despite being released in 1993, tecmo super bowl has acquired a cult following and has a community that continues to update emulation-roms with player rosters to this day. quick and easy breakfasts definitely don't have to be boring. so put away the energy bars, instant oatmeal, and pre-packaged breakfast sandwiches and instead make these five minute breakfast tacos. your belly will thank you and so will your diet. packed with protein and healthy fats from the eggs and avocado, fiber from the black beans and tortillas, and plenty of flavor from the chipotle salsa - this will quickly become one of your favorite breakfasts. i recommend adding in some extra veggies to pack in even more nutrition. i usually throw some spinach, diced zucchini, or tomatoes into the eggs. and if you happen to have any leftover roasted squash or sweet potatoes, they really take these tacos to the next level. you could also add some shredded cheese, diced ham, turkey bacon, chicken, or soyrizo. seattle -- mariners pitcher taijuan walker had surgery monday to remove a bone fragment from his right ankle. he is one of three seattle pitchers to undergo surgery since the end of the regular season. walker is expected to start rehabbing immediately and should be ready for the start of spring training. he was bothered in the second half of the season by ankle and foot issues, including a stint on the disabled list. reliever steve cishek underwent surgery last week to repair a torn labrum in his left hip. his rehab is expected to take four to six months, putting his status for the start of spring training in question. reliever tony zych had surgery last week on his right shoulder. a right-hander, zych had a biceps tendon transfer, and the team said the surgery did not involve the rotator cuff or the capsule in the shoulder. he is expected to be ready for the start of spring training. an 80-year-old woman and a 16-year-old boy have been plucked from the rubble of a house demolished by the enormous quake which hit japan nine days ago. sumi abe and jin abe - said to be her grandson - "were found under debris", said a police spokesman in ishinomaki city, miyagi prefecture, according to afp news agency. the two were in the kitchen when the quake hit on 11 march, a doctor said. they survived as they were able to get yoghurt and other food from the fridge. the grandson eventually managed to reach the roof of the house where he flagged down a rescue helicopter, reported japan's nhk news service. the two are now being treated in hospital in ishinomaki. "their temperatures were quite low but they were conscious," the police spokesman said. he said details of their condition were not immediately available, though a rescuer was quoted as saying the boy was found shivering and with no feeling in one leg. miyagi was the worst-hit in the double disaster of the quake and tsunami of 11 march, with police now saying they fear 15,000 lives could have been lost in that prefecture alone. on saturday the military announced a man had been found alive in rubble, but it later turned out that he had been in an evacuation centre and had tried to return to his home. prime minister malcolm turnbull has mounted a defence of coal-powered electricity, saying those who think the resource doesn't have a future are "delusional". addressing the liberal national party state convention in brisbane, mr turnbull hit out at the state labor government's "reckless" plans to ensure queensland's energy supply is carbon neutral by 2050 and said australia had an interest in ensuring the future of coal. "those people who say coal and other fossil fuels have no future are delusional and they fly in the face of all of the economic forecasts," he told the crowd of party faithful. his sentiments were greeted with applause by the crowd, who a day earlier had passed a resolution urging a future state lnp government to promote and support the coal industry. the russian prison service today said it had caught a cat being used as a courier to smuggle banned cell phones and chargers into a prison camp in the country's remote far north. the prison service in the komi region said on its website that the cat was detained friday evening as it climbed the fence of the region's number one corrective labour camp with two cell phones, batteries and chargers strapped to its back using tape. it posted a photograph of the black-and-white cat held up by the scruff of its neck by a guard with the bulky package still stuck to its fur. "they have foiled various attempts to smuggle banned objects into prison colony number one before, but in the case of the cat, the prison colony is at a loss: nothing like this has happened in the prison's history," the regional prison service said. by now, it's pretty obvious that companies like uber and lyft offer a compelling service, one that taxi companies all over seem to be kicking themselves for not having thought of first. but despite the fact that these services offer a nice benefit to customers, they're fighting an uphill battle legally. many, like californian senator ben hueso, prefer to vote in favor of the taxi lobby, causing the futures for companies like uber to be clouded in complication. it's ironic, then, that the aforementioned senator, mere hours after voting in support of a taxi lobby bill, was arrested for drunk driving. this is one of those situations when i feel compelled to fill in the blanks. after stumbling out of his preferred place of drink, hueso probably looked around for a taxi - but couldn't find one. clearly, uber or lyft would have helped in this situation, since it takes very little effort to tap away a couple of times on your smartphone - you don't even have to talk to anyone in your drunken stupor. instead, hueso decided to drive drunk. the timing is what makes this event so perfect. it's not as though hueso was merely swaying along the road: he was driving in the wrong direction. he wasn't just intoxicated, he was really intoxicated. and this is a man that contributes to putting new laws into effect. this reality doesn't come as a real surprise, of course, but it's depressing nonetheless. an adult male atlantic bottlenose dolphin died today at seaworld orlando. the cause of death is not yet known, but the 22-year-old dolphin had not shown signs of illness before today. a necropsy will be complete in six to eight weeks. "the dolphin, one of more than 80 bottlenose dolphins living in our orlando parks, will be missed by all of us at seaworld," spokesman fred jacobs said in an email. seaworld says on its website most bottlenose dolphins probably live 20 years or less, citing an estimate based on census data from the population off the coast of sarasota. the national oceanic and atmospheric administration's website says bottlenose dolphins live 40-50 years. seaworld says the sarasota one is the longest-running one in the world. last month, a beluga whale died at seaworld. it had been suffering from an infection associated with a jaw injury. a cause of death has not yet been determined. poor adjudicating cost him one of the best goals of his career, but a-league star thomas broich has rejected calls for goal-line technology. despite being robbed of a booming 25 metre strike against adelaide on sunday and his brisbane roar coach, mike mulvey, pushing for referees to receive extra help, broich prefers to keep the human element in the game. phantom goal: a poor decision robbed brisbane roar star thomas broich of a goal he would have "framed and put on the wall". credit:getty images the german maestro, widely regarded as the best import in the history of the a-league, admitted it was heartbreaking to be denied a goal he would have "framed and put on the wall". however, he has no time for the debate, and said players should accept denied goals like other incorrect decisions. german chancellor angela merkel praised turkey's efforts in supporting millions of refugees from syria and iraq on thursday, and urged eu states to help share the burden. speaking at a summit of european conservative leaders in malta on thursday, merkel said the eu had long neglected its humanitarian responsibility for refugees who have fled from conflicts in the middle east. "the truth is that we looked away," she said, adding that amid the eu's negligence, turkey, lebanon, and jordan had long struggled alone to cope with the influx from neighboring syria. "despite all the criticism we direct at turkey in these days, it did a lot for the three million refugees and it is right that europe would support turkey in this matter," she added. merkel championed an agreement between the eu and turkey last year in order to stem the illegal flows of people across the aegean sea, and improve conditions for millions of refugees sheltered in turkey. while the plan has successfully reduced refugee flows, the turkish authorities have accused the eu of not honoring its commitments. these include delays in promised funding for refugee projects, the opposition of several eu states to the relocation of refugees, a lack of progress in talks to accelerate turkey's eu membership and a failure to deliver on visa-free travel for turkish nationals. recent political tensions between turkey and its eu partners have further increased doubts about the future of the refugee agreement, with turkish officials publicly saying ankara might reconsider the pact. germany received a record 890,000 refugees in 2015, but the number of asylum seekers dropped to 280,000 in 2016 after the eu-turkey agreement became effective. i don't want spoilers, but i do want to see more of the game mechanics, animations, visual effects, etc. i've looked at what i could find, and it was good to see a little more gameplay and combat. i haven't seen anything too spoilery, mostly just the sort of things that they showed to the attendees at quakecon and gamescom. if bethesda would just release that footage already, i could get my fix without risking story spoilers. i don't know if any of the leakers are reviewers beholden to an nda or just regular players who have managed to get a ps4 copy out the back door of an unscrupulous game shop. i don't care really, in another week everything will be fair game anyway. edited by lefty666, 02 november 2015 - 11:50 am. legionaere tv succeeded in their crowdfunding campaign. on the second to last day of their drive they reached the goal of 13,428 euros and will have instant replay in the 2015 season. they raised nearly 14,000 euros also thanks to an impressive live stream performance during the european championship first round in regensburg, where 5,000 unique visitors from all over the world watched the live stream every day. legionaere tv is broadcasting all home games of the buchbinder legionaere regensburg and has broadcasted not only the 2014 european championship first round, but also the european cup, the buchbinder cup, bundesliga all-star games and the mlb european academies tournaments. all games are also available as video on demand. when i installed it in the pc, the pc would not boot completely. i could not format the disk. the wd people told me to run their data lifeguard diagnostic for windows on the disk to solve the problem. the problem is it would not boot with the hdd installed in the pc. i purchased a usb docking station and was able to format the drive and use it on the docking station; but it still cannot replace the hdd i had in the pc. i was upgrading a 1tb to the 3tb drive for more drive space. i am stuck with it on the docking station. i already have my files moved to it and don't know if a replacement will work in the pc either, may be a problem with the 3tb hdd. we don't know if texas running back d'onta foreman will finish the season as the nation's leading rusher, but we do know that if he does, he won't be coming back next year to defend his title. foreman announced on wednesday that he would forgo his final year of eligibility and enter the nfl draft in the spring. it's a decision that makes a lot of sense for foreman. he has rushed for 2,028 yards this season, which currently leads the nation, and has 15 touchdowns. those are the kind of numbers that could send foreman to new york in december as a heisman trophy finalist. they're also the kind of numbers that come as a result of carrying the ball 323 times this season, including 51 carries against kansas a couple of weeks ago. it's no secret that running backs wear down over time, as they take quite a beating with just about every carry. it's always important for a running back with the ability to play in the nfl to get there as early as possible to maximize their earning potential. there's obviously a long way to go between now and the nfl draft, but at the moment foreman is projected to be a second- or third-round pick, according to cbs sports. lca initially put up a few touch points on doors and counters in their main lobby. within the first week, the response from staff and parents was so encouraging they decided to deploy nanoseptic surfaces in as many places as possible. not only is the school using these self-cleaning surfaces to create a cleaner environment, but it is contributing to a feeling of safety and security among students, teachers and staff. and the relationship between the school and parents has benefited from the extra effort the school has gone to in providing a cleaner environment for their children. when you find a product that not only creates a cleaner school, but also improves our image in the eyes of the parents, that's something special. using nanotechnology powered self-cleaning surfaces in our school creates a cleaner environment and communicates our commitment to the wellbeing of students, teachers and visitors at every touch point. -john patterson, superintendent with almost 2,000 students in pre-k through 12th grade, lca not only decided to utilize a variety of nanoseptic products, but they also promoted the concept to students, parents and staff with educational materials at the main entrance. the school outfitted all primary door touchpoints with nanoseptic skins, deployed ultra-durable counter mats at the reception desks, and outfitted the entire computer lab with nanoseptic mousepads. other products that are being evaluated for future use are place mats for pre-schoolers and placemats for the cafeteria. abductions of journalists inside syria have increased sharply this year as the ravages of the conflict have worsened and the insurgency has turned more jihadist and chaotic, making the country one of the most hostile conflict zones for news gatherers in recent memory, according to news media advocacy organizations, rights workers and veteran correspondents. some appear to have been carried out by armed insurgent extremist groups and criminal networks seeking ransom in cash, weapons or both. but others have no declared motive. foreign journalists are particular targets, mostly europeans who have ventured into syria, usually without the permission of the syrian government, to cover a conflict now well into its third year. syrian journalists have been taken, too, as have syrians working with foreign news organizations. foreign reporters were initially welcomed by many insurgents and syrian civilians, taken for advocates who could publicize grievances against president bashar al-assad. now they are sometimes viewed as interlopers who have no stake in the outcome of the conflict, which has left more than 100,000 people dead. french president emmanuel macron said thursday it is "obvious and indispensable" to have exchanges with us president donald trump as the two leaders were set to meet to try to push past major differences and find common ground on security, defense and other issues. mr macron spoke at a news conference following a meeting in paris with german chancellor angela merkel who, like mr macron, was deeply disappointed in mr trump's recent decision to withdraw the us from a global agreement to combat climate change. mrs merkel said differences with the us are "regrettable" but that communication continues. mr trump arrived in the french capital on thursday after an overnight flight from washington for a whirlwind, 36-hour visit to meet with macron and tackle potential solutions to the crisis in syria and discuss broader counterterrorism strategies. today's chemical exposures are characterised by a widely spread blanket of contamination composed of myriads of chemicals, many of them endocrine disrupters, all at rather low levels. with their focus on considering single chemicals one by one, the approaches used by regulatory bodies worldwide for safety assessments of chemicals cannot keep up with these pollution patterns. a substantial challenge lies in the assessment of combination effects from large numbers of endocrine disrupters and other chemicals, all at low doses. we retrace the development of experimental and conceptual approaches required for assessing low dose mixtures, with an emphasis on work with endocrine disrupting chemicals. we find that nearly 20 years of research has produced good evidence for combination effects at levels around experimental thresholds. one obstacle in deciding on the relevance of this evidence is incomplete information about the range of endocrine-disrupting chemicals that make up combined exposures. these knowledge gaps need to be closed urgently, as is currently discussed under the heading of exposome research. a partially redacted report into april's incident released friday by the pentagon revealed little that was not already known about how 12 soldiers, airmen, marines and sailors had taken prostitutes to their hotel rooms. the team was in place as part of the security detail for mr obama's visit to the summit of the americas in cartagena, colombia , and their behaviour came to light after nine civilian us secret service officers were caught for the same offence. the report concluded that, while servicemen had breached us military law by consorting with sex workers and in some cases by committing adultery, and had shown bad discipline by drinking, they had not endangered national security. according to the report, the cartagena hotel where they were staying, el caribe, allowed guests to entertain overnight guests - "commonly a prostitute" - and that no colombian laws appeared to have been broken. but investigators did receive complaints from local witnesses about the general behavior of the us personnel, including that the dozen suspects had kept "overnight guests" in their rooms after 6am in breach of hotel rules. "explosive detection dog handlers were allowing their animals to sleep in hotel beds, soil the linens and urinate and defecate in inappropriate locations on the hotel grounds, leaving the waste," the report added. "unidentified hotel guests, thought to be american, were bothering and propositioning college-age female greeters working at el caribe with the colombian ministry of foreign affairs," it noted. april's scandal was embarrassing to the obama administration and led to allegations that the servicemen and agents might have compromised national security or the president's safety by consorting with colombian women. the report, however, concluded there was no evidence that the women had ties to criminal drug-smuggling groups or terrorist movements, nor were they victims of human trafficking networks. left-wing mps are advising education minister jay weatherill not to challenge premier mike rann. "any challenge in the current climate would be an appalling mistake," a source said yesterday. speculation on a change of leadership has been rife since an advertiser poll last week showed labor's primary support at 24 per cent. the poll also had mr rann's approval at 28 per cent. opposition leader isobel redmond was the preferred premier of 56 per cent of those polled. labor sources said yesterday the party needed to settle down and let the dust settle from the poll, and the shock charging of a labor mp with child pornography offences. the party's preference is understood to be for a negotiated deal to see a leadership handover early next year from mr rann to either mr weatherill or john rau. while mr rau is favourite as the right has the numbers in caucus, at least four right mps are believed to be ready to support mr weatherill. mr rann dismissed speculation saying: "we are getting on with the job. there will be good polls and bad polls," he said. adelaide university school of history and politics head dr clem macintyre said the situation was "messy" to the point where it was hard to see labor re-establishing as the dominant party without key structural change. there is an interesting cultural element of worshipping weapons in india. it is called shastra puja or ayudha puja, which literally means weapon worship. it takes place during an indian religious annual festival in september. the celebration is dedicated to the goddess durga. during this event, people decorate their weapons with flowers and some religious ornaments and pray to them. this is also some sort of an act of gratitude and appreciation of the weapons and the protection they provide. earlier, of course, people worshiped the bows, arrows, swords and other weapons of the time. since the firearms were introduced, gained popularity and pretty much replaced the old types of weapons, they became a part of this ritual. today this celebration has even widened its meaning and people start to worship any tool which they use to make a living: cars, hand tools, machinery etc. for some tribes like kodava people, weapon worshipping is especially important. weapons had a central role in their culture for centuries. these people are avid proponents of firearm ownership. they educate their children from the very young age to respect the gun and understand the responsibilities and benefits associated with owning a firearm. it is interesting to see an example of an old culture giving so much importance of responsible ownership of firearms and appreciating the role that weapons played during the history of mankind. a north korean soldier has fled to south korea by swimming across the han river, the second defection in a week. south korea's joint chiefs of staff said the man had swum across a particularly narrow part of the fast-moving river after attaching foam to his shoulders to help him stay afloat. last week, a north korean soldier walked across the heavily-guarded border that separates the countries. soldiers had previously been defecting at the rate of about one a year. the latest defector, thought to be in his early twenties, was spotted at gimpo, just west of the southern capital seoul, yonhap news agency reported. he screamed "don't kill me, i am here to defect", at a south korean marine who had seen him, yonhap said. the soldier will now be questioned by military officials. north and south korea are technically still at war, since the conflict between them ended in 1953 with a truce, not a formal peace treaty. seoul says more than 30,000 north koreans have defected to the south since the end of the korean war, the majority via china, which has the longest border with the north. victoria's teachers' union is calling for an end to religious education in state schools, increasing pressure on the baillieu government over the controversial program. the victorian branch, representing 46,000 state school teachers, passed a resolution at its friday council meeting calling for special religious instruction during school hours to be scrapped. its resolution stated that public education must remain ''free and secular''. the union's push was supported by three victorian state school principals contacted by the sunday age, who said religious education - predominantly christian in its focus - was often badly taught, sent the wrong message to students and was a waste of valuable classroom time. the developments follow mounting criticism by parents, teachers and principals of the program, and damaging revelations about how it is administered and what is being taught . frank is one of the five founders of a clan known as the horsemen, and the only known mortal member of it. he is only a member of the clan because death and the other three horsemen of the apocalypse needed a fifth person to found a clan and frank happened to be nearby at the time. he is good friends with death, and helps out with his duties when he is absent or busy. during the missing, presumed death quest, he replaces the absent death inside his office, serving as death tutor, master of the soul reaper distraction and diversion and the place to reclaim items on death. like death himself, he provides soul reaper tasks, gives access to the soul reaper reward shop, and can be used to change loot beam settings. he also replaced death during the gauntlet of souls hallowe'en event. he and his pet chicken horses also featured in the deathcon ii hallowe'en event, where he invited players to the horsemen's citadel, and tasked them with getting the firework on the roof of the clan keep working correctly. the department of justice has plans to sue apple for allegedly colluding to fix the prices of e-books, the wall street journal reported thursday. until fairly recently, publishers sold books to retailers for around half the suggested cover price, and then retailers were free to set their own prices. in recent years, apple has turned its e-books business in the ibookstore over to an "agency model," where publishers decide how much the book will sell for at a given retailer, but must take into account the fact that apple gets a 30 percent cut of each sale. on top of that, apple stipulated that the publishers could not sell their e-books for lower prices anywhere else. according to quotes pulled from steve jobs by walter isaacson, jobs said that publishers then took the agency model to other e-book retailers and told the retailers they had to agree to the minimum retail price set by apple's pricing strictures, preventing other e-book sellers like amazon from undercutting the competition. the five publishers under scrutiny for working with apple in this way include simon and schuster, hachette book group, the penguin group, macmillan, and harpercollins. the doj believes these actions constitute a violation of antitrust law, and are attempting to settle the case with the relevant companies. if a settlement is not reached, according to the wsj, the doj will sue apple and the five publishers. a great many people in the american midwest have family roots in germany, and a good number of them can tell you all about a beloved old-country holiday tradition: the weihnachtsgurke, or christmas pickle. they will tell you that an ornament in the shape of a pickle is always the last one hung on the tree on christmas eve, camouflaged somewhere among the pine needles. it might be shiny or matte; it might have gold swirls or a little santa hat. but whatever the style, the story goes that the first child to find the pickle in the morning is assured of good luck in the coming year and a special gift. it sounds plausible: germans tend to love traditions, christmas and pickles. versions of the story and speculation over its origins proliferate on the internet. there is only one snag: it is all but unknown in germany. the yougov polling agency surveyed 2,057 germans in november and found that 91 percent had never even heard of this holiday legend attributed to their country. the podcast that must shine upon hyrule once again, welcome back to noclip, where this week we are beginning our discussion on the legend of zelda: breath of the wild and we're joined by our friends janelle and dan. this game's release is an event for a number of reasons, as it launched a new nintendo console and represents a departure from what most would consider the way a traditional zelda game works. the fact that it has been embraced by fans of the series in light of this is testament to how well nintendo pulled the open world game off. we talk about shrines, zelda's role in her games over the years, and everything you need to know about horses. thanks for listening and join us in two weeks as we close out our discussion on zelda! us space agency nasa is planning to launch a 3d printer into space next year to help astronauts manufacture spare parts and tools in zero gravity. it will be the first time a 3d printer has been used in space and could help reduce the costs of future missions. the device will have to withstand lift-off vibrations and operate safely in an enclosed space station environment. nasa has chosen technology start-up made in space to make the microwave oven-sized printer. "imagine an astronaut needing to make a life-or-death repair on the international space station," said aaron kemmer, the company's chief executive. "rather than hoping that the necessary parts and tools are on the station already, what if the parts could be 3d printed when they needed them?" in 1970, apollo 13 astronauts had to cobble together a home-made carbon dioxide filter using a plastic bag, a manual cover and gaffer tape. image caption made in space scientists work on the 3d printer prototype a 3d printer might have solved the problem in minutes. "if you want to be adaptable, you have to be able to design and manufacture on the fly, and that's where 3d printing in space comes in,'' said dave korsmeyer, director of engineering at nasa's ames research center. nasa is also experimenting with 3d printing small satellites that could be launched from the international space station and then transmit data to earth. additive manufacturing, as 3d printing is also known, builds up objects layer by layer, commonly using polymer materials. but laser-melted titanium and nickel-chromium powders are now being used to build much stronger components. in august, nasa successfully tested a metal 3d printed rocket component as part of its drive to reduce the costs of space exploration. now think about this - if any gopers had announced their support of the bill, they might well have given "bipartisan" cover for dems to vote against the bill. instead they spent the last 6 months doing a victory dance and declaring that obama was one term president. if they had kept the debate alive and welcomed wavering dems, they could have defeated the proposal and made themselves look reasonable. but they made themselves look stubborn and crazy. suppose a dozen republican representatives had just pretended to be on the fence? wouldn't pelosi and reid have been much less effective at lining up votes? and then the gopers could have voted no, and the proposal would have lost by a dozen or more votes. the endless lucy-yanking-the-football-away routine would have worked one more time if the gop had just made an effort to sell it to dems and the voters. instead, they alternated between doing their little endzone celebration and whining that the dems were not given them a chance to participate. bbc news, luxembourg uzbek troops have cracked down hard on dissent the eu has lifted an arms embargo against uzbekistan, despite continuing concerns about human rights in the central asian nation. the embargo was imposed in 2005, after uzbek government troops killed more than 100 mainly unarmed opposition protesters in the city of andijan. eu foreign ministers said the aim was to further encourage the uzbek authorities to improve human rights. international human rights groups have strongly criticised the eu's move. the eu imposed sanctions on uzbekistan in 2005 after the authorities rejected calls for an international inquiry into the events in andijan. the decision to lift the arms embargo comes after uzbekistan released some political prisoners and abolished the death penalty. but the country's strategic position in central asia seems to have been the main argument, together with its rich energy resources and its support in supplying german troops in neighbouring afghanistan. eu foreign ministers said they remained seriously concerned about the human rights situation in uzbekistan and would review it within a year. they called on the uzbek authorities to release all jailed human rights defenders, guarantee freedom of speech and fight child labour. but groups like human rights watch and amnesty international say the decision to end the sanctions fails not just the victims of andijan and their families, but also dozens of human rights defenders and journalists who are still being harassed, tortured and detained today. digital marketing is a fast-paced industry, and staying on top of the game is a daily struggle for every marketer. we are constantly reading about the latest marketing strategies, tactics and tools for staying ahead of the competition. it is easy to become overwhelmed by the constant flow of new ideas. simply keeping track of important and interesting information can become a time-consuming routine. what do you do when you come across an interesting article but don't have the time to carefully read the content? maybe you forward it to your email, save it to your bookmarks, or pin it to your pinterest board. these are some of the solutions that i personally used in the past. but one day i realized that it didn't work. i saved quite a few articles over several months in my bookmarks folder, as a resource of ideas for the marketing strategy i was to prepare at the end of the year for the company where i work. to my surprise, when i returned to my bookmarks to review my collection, i found that many links were out of date. the articles were removed, links were changed, and i couldn't find them anymore. since then i've changed my approach. and i'm going to share my exact process with you. called ta-ra by its first inhabitants, the gadigal people, millers point was named after windmills built in the hills and their owner john leighton, also known as jack the miller. by the 1850s, millers point was a maritime enclave with almost all its residents and employers connected to the wharves and the trade they brought. in 1900, after an outbreak of the bubonic plague, the government took control of all the wharves and streets behind them to start a massive redevelopment project. this period produced some of sydney's greatest public works - the wharves from woolloomooloo to white bay and the harbour bridge. intact throughout the plague, the depression and war, the community at millers point was threatened in the 1970s when the askin government tried to push high-rise development in the area. jack mundey and the green ban movement of the early 1970s, saved many of the oldest buildings in the area, as well as parks and open spaces. this fight was not just about protecting old buildings; it was also about protecting the area's low-income residents. the best of david attenborough's early adventures as never seen before - in colour - and with it the story of how the pioneering television series zoo quest was made. thanks to a remarkable discovery in the bbc's film vaults, the best of david attenborough's early zoo quest adventures can now be seen as never before, in colour, and with it the remarkable story of how this pioneering television series was made. first broadcast in december 1954, zoo quest was one of the most popular television series of its time and launched the career of the young david attenborough as a wildlife presenter. it completely changed how viewers saw the world, revealing wildlife and tribal communities that had never been filmed or even seen before. broadcast ten years before colour television was seen in the uk, zoo quest was thought to have been filmed in black and white, until now. using this extraordinary new-found colour film, together with new behind-the-scenes stories from david attenborough and cameraman charles lagus, this special showcases the very best of zoo quest to west africa, zoo quest to guiana and zoo quest for a dragon in stunning hd colour for the very first time. flacco didn't get off to a great start sunday night . his first three drives resulted in two punts and an interception. however, he then found his rhythm, leading the ravens to touchdowns on each of their next three drives. he made several beautiful touch throws from inside the pocket and also showed off his arm by squeezing a few balls into very tight windows. after his early hiccups, he did an excellent job protecting the football and making good decisions. he led two fourth-quarter scoring drives, including the final drive, which culminated in justin tucker's 27-yard field goal as time expired . schaub also got off to a rough start on sunday afternoon. his very first snap of the game resulted in a safety for the broncos defense. however, just like flacco, he caught fire following that early mishap. schaub threw touchdown passes on each of his next three possessions, including two scoring strikes of over 50 yards. both long touchdown throws resulted from beautiful play-action fakes, as well as schaub's incredible anticipation and pinpoint accuracy. schaub also showed his toughness by sitting out for just one play after having part of his ear ripped off during a devastating third-quarter hit. a clutch third-down connection with andre johnson late in the fourth quarter helped seal the win for the texans. get the latest news and videos for this game daily, no spam, no fuss. the xbox one's launch on november 22 will commence the platform's "more than 10-year journey," microsoft corporate vice president phil harrison said today during his eurogamer expo keynote address. through a range of features and services, including the cloud, microsoft will support the xbox one for more than a decade, harrison said. by comparison, the xbox 360 launched in november 2005 and will be supported for at least three more years, according to microsoft chief marketing and strategy officer yusuf mehdi. "for us, it's not just about the launch date. it is about the start of the journey where the console will be improved and will be adapted and changed," he said. harrison reiterated that microsoft has 300,000 dedicated servers at its disposal for the xbox one to support and accelerate features like multiplayer and various networking services, as well as for cloud processing and artificial intelligence. following places like chihuahua and mexico city, the western mexican state of nayarit has legalized same-sex marriage. the state's congress passed an amendment to the state civil code this week, which should be formalized shortly, the yucatan times reports. nayarit's legalization follows a decision by the nation's supreme court that opened the door for such changes. that june ruling stated that limiting marriages to opposite-sex couples was unconstitutional, though it didn't order states to begin issuing marriage licenses to all. instead, the high court was offering "jurisprudential thesis" to the states, and opening the door for lower-court judges to follow their lead should local marriage bans be challenged. some jurisdictions enacted marriage equality earlier, with mexico city doing so almost six years ago. the liberal-minded mexican supreme court in august also struck down bans on adoption of children by same-sex couples. gallup's annual world affairs survey shows that only 48 percent of those identifying as democrats sympathize more with israelis in tensions in the mideast than with palestinians. in contrast, 83 percent of republicans side with israelis. the figure for all americans is 62 percent. as that graph of the trend by party shows, that summary masks some nuance. that 48 percent of democrats is actually up significantly since the mid-1990s -- as is the figure for republicans. over the past 12 months, though, there's been a drop of support for israelis of about ten points by democrats, a plunge that rivals the decline seen among all parties after a boost of support during the first gulf war. gallup suggests that timing may have played a role. the survey was conducted earlier this month, as the debate over israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu's upcoming speech to congress began to heat up. the speech and the invitation that prompted it have been criticized in the united states and in israel as injecting partisan politics into the relationship between the two countries. gallup's survey suggests that might be true. the graph above also masks americans' overall support of israel. seventy percent of americans rate israel favorably, down a tick from the 72 percent expressed in 2014, but nothing substantial. that trend has also been consistently upward since the 1990s. a huge plume of black smoke could be seen across the area and witnesses said the force of the blast had forced some of the train's wagons off the tracks. interior ministry spokesman shota utiashvili said there had been several explosions near an abandoned georgian military base where the russian troops, on leaving gori, had left a stockpile of munitions taken from the georgian army. he suggested the stockpile or the train track could have been mined by the russian forces. he said there had been no casualties. georgian authorities had been hoping to help thousands of refugees return to gori on sunday having carried out a mine-sweeping operation in the town, which lies close to the border with the breakaway province of south ossetia. georgia's prime minister lado gurgenidze said it would be important to see the extent of the damage, once the fire had been extinguished. "the railway is vital, not just for the georgian economy but for the economies of neighbouring countries," he said. the track runs through the capital tbilisi before splitting and running to the black sea ports of poti and batumi and south-west towards the turkish border. one of the train's wagons was marked azpetrol - a company based in baku, azerbaijan. president sarkozy called a special summit of eu leaders to discuss the georgian crisis, to be held in brussels on 1 september. his office said the summit, arranged at the request of various european countries, would discuss the future of eu relations with russia as well as aid for georgia. russia's four-day war with georgia erupted after tbilisi tried to retake south ossetia - which broke away in 1992 and was supported by moscow - in a surprise offensive on 7 august. the offensive followed a series of clashes between georgian and south ossetian forces. we are concerned about these reports. as a general principle, we believe that maintaining the internet as a neutral platform means that carriers shouldn't be able to interfere with web content without users' permission. we are in the process of contacting the relevant parties to bring this to a quick resolution. according to one of my blog readers, the rogers content substitution approach is back. the image below shows rogers warning a customer about the expiry of some parental controls. the warning is included in a flickr page. this approach again raises concerns about rogers interfering with the delivery of content without permission of the end user. when combined with its ongoing policy of redirecting web pages that do not resolve to a company-sponsored paid search page, rogers own content seems to show up unasked on a regular basis. frequently asked credit questions find answers to the most common questions. credit score and loan basics read more about cibil score and understand why it plays a critical role in the loan application process. also learn how to improve your cibil score. loan rejections and disputes get answers to all your queries related to loan rejections and disputes. understand your credit score and report simple, descriptive answers to all your queries regarding your cibil score and report. purchase and post-purchase help an exhaustive guide to help address all your queries related to purchase and post purchase experience. apply for a loan learn more about cibil market place and get answers to all your queries about loan and credit card offers from different participating lenders. cibil rank and company credit report faqs get answers to your most common queries about cibil rank and company credit report. among the conclusions made by russian and the un officials was that the exiled government and rebels should re-establish dialogue and work towards a political solution. further discussions focused on ways of alleviating a growing humanitarian crisis in yemen where there are concerns that a widespread famine is imminent. at least 10,000 people have been killed in yemen since saudi arabia entered the conflict in march 2015, after houthi rebels took control of the capital sana'a and overthrew president hadi, according to the un. to date un brokered negotiations have failed to bring about a lasting ceasefire. in late january, the houthi-controlled saba news agency reported that the charge d'affaires of the russian embassy in yemen andrei chernfall had held talks with the houthi's minister of foreign affairs. it has led to accusations from supporters of the exiled hadi government that moscow has adopted a partisan stance in the conflict. russia has heavily criticised saud arabia's intervention in the conflict. it has abstained from un security council votes calling for arms embargos against the iran-backed group and a saudi-backed resolution demanding houthi rebels withdraw from all territory seized in their campaign. former president ali abdullah saleh has praised russian president vladimir putin's "positive attitude" towards the yemen conflict. he also described moscow as yemen's "closest kin" in the international community. the series is about a teenage boy and his family who can transform into werewolves, focusing on themes of coming of age and fitting in. while generally keeping true to the main ideas, this version made some changes from the film. scott howard and his family live in the fictional town of wolverton, a small town that draws tourists because of its history of werewolf sightings. unlike the film, scott's status as a werewolf is a secret. despite the youth audience, the cartoon series delivered very powerful critiques of disability-as-civil rights. freely invoking an asthma attack or seizure, the series centered on how scott felt "weird" immediately before and during his werewolf transformation. although he never hurt anybody while he was a werewolf, scott was conscious of his difference from other teenagers and had to make accommodations for himself. he also expressed frustration that the residents of this town had stereotyped "his people". a jock named mick constantly picks on scott for being the "outsider" at wolverton high. the troubled history of the uk's relationship with europe. episode one examines why british governments initially shunned the new common market then begged to join. the critical decision britain's voters are about to take in the referendum is the culmination of decades of agonising debate about britain's place in europe, and its often lethal effect on british politics. this programme takes viewers into the corridors of power to hear from the men and women who took the decisions which led us to where we are today. the first episode examines why british governments first shunned the new common market then begged to join it. it explores the decisive part played by three british prime ministers - winston churchill, harold macmillan and edward heath. after being humiliated by the french president charles de gaulle when britain first applied to join, heath triumphantly took the uk into the common market ten years later. but the seeds of today's problems were already being sown. the unfamiliar story - sometimes witty, sometimes poignant - emerges from a series of special interviews with heath and two of his successors, tony blair and david cameron, as well as other key british players - roy jenkins, enoch powell, shirley williams, barbara castle, norman tebbit, nigel farage and william hague - plus the main civil servants and diplomats involved on both sides of the english channel. some of the interviews come from the 1996 bbc two series the poisoned chalice, also produced by john bridcut. american artist john h wurdeman was drawn to the former soviet state of georgia by the country's folk music. sixteen years later he is still living there, immersed in a culture he says is full of tradition and emotion. georgia is a place of "very real tears but also very genuine laughter", says the impressionist painter, 37, who trained at the surikov institute in moscow, russia. wurdeman went to georgia in 1996 and settled in the town of signaghi, in the centre of the country's wine region. he lives there with his wife ketevan and their two children and now runs a winery, pheasant's tears, dedicated to preserving georgian wine culture. he tells the bbc about his passion for art and wine and why georgians are more prepared to express emotions to strangers. produced for the bbc by ilya shnitser. parishioners in massachusetts have admitted defeat in their efforts to keep their church open, bringing to a tearful end their 11-year protest. a group of about 100 worshippers at st frances x cabrini church in scituate have kept an around-the-clock vigil. this month, the us supreme court refused to hear their final appeal against the roman catholic archdiocese of boston's decision to close it. but on sunday the protest came to an end at an emotional final service. it was described as a "celebration of faith and transition" and many of the parishioners shared an embrace and cried. as the service came to an end, quilts depicting each year of the vigil were taken from the walls of the church and carried down the aisles and out of the church door. the archdiocese decided to close st frances x cabrini and more than 75 other parishes due to dwindling attendances, a shortage of clergy and buildings in decline. the closings came after child sex abuse scandals plagued the archdiocese. image copyright ap image caption worshippers fought a decade-long fight to prevent the church closing image copyright ap image caption nancy shilts hugs another parishioner before the final service several of the churches earmarked for closure held vigils in protest but st frances x cabrini was the last church to keep up its occupation. in parallel with the sit-in was a legal challenge that went through civil courts and even reached the vatican, but all in vain. a judge at the state's superior court ruled that the archdiocese was legally able to evict the protesters, as the legal owner of the property. that ruling was upheld by the massachusetts appeals court. an archdiocese spokesman said he hoped the protesters would be able to attend another church within the district. a cameraman flying over iceland's bardarbunga volcano has filmed fountains of lava shooting 70 metres into the air. huge clouds of smoke - mostly vapour and gas, rather than ash, which is dangerous for planes - could be seen coming out of the volcano. since august 16, a series of earthquakes in the area have created breaks in the vatnajokull glacier, which is northeast of the volcano. the tremors have created cracks in the glacier, allowing streams of lava to pour through. the alert level for the area is being kept at orange, indicating that it is showing increased unrest with greater potential for an eruption. experts are worried the lava fault expanding to the north might also spread to the south, reaching below the glacier, and that the continuing five magnitude tremors could result in a violent eruption below the glacier. if that happened, it would result in the melting of an enormous quantity of ice, causing vast floods in the area and major explosions with more volcanic ash. in the past 72 hours, the volcanic activity has increased dramatically, with the lava now covering an area of more than four square kilometres. the fissure eruption appeared about 28 miles from the main bardarbunga volcano, which lies under the vast vatnajokull glacier that dominates the eastern corner of iceland. though remote and sparsely populated, the area is popular with hikers in the summer. officials earlier evacuated all tourists in the region following a period of intense seismic activity. stanford university pursues the science of learning. online learners are important participants in that pursuit. the information we gather from your engagement with our instructional offerings makes it possible for faculty, researchers, designers and engineers to continuously improve their work and, in that process, build learning science. by registering as an online learner, you are also participating in research intended to enhance stanford's instructional offerings as well as the quality of learning and related sciences worldwide. in the interest of research, you may be exposed to some variations in the course materials. stanford does not use learner data for any purpose beyond the university's stated missions of education and research. for purposes of research, we may share information we collect from online learning activities, including personally identifiable information, with researchers beyond stanford. however, your personally identifiable information will only be shared as permitted by applicable law, will be limited to what is necessary to perform the research, and will be subject to an agreement to protect the data. we may also share with the public or third parties aggregated information that does not personally identify you. similarly, any research findings will be reported at the aggregate level and will not expose your personal identity. please read our privacy policy for more information regarding the processing, transmission and use of data collected through the stanford online website and stanford's lagunita platform. cd projekt red has released the xbox one x patch for the witcher 3: wild hunt. the patch adds two new graphical modes: performance and 4k. the 4k mode locks the witcher 3 at a 4k resolution with a stable 30 frame-rate. but the performance mode unlocks the game's resolution and targets 60 frames-per-second instead. this means your game will dynamically scale from 1080p up to 4k. both modes support hdr, and a separate patch will be released for ps4 pro "soon" adding hdr support, said cdpr in a blog post. we've analysed the witcher 3 ps4 pro patch in depth before. the xbox one x patch also brings enhanced shadows, ambient occlusion and texture filtering, as well as higher resolution textures. to access the xbox one x graphics modes go to the game's options menu, display, advanced. scientists from china and singapore have used electrospinning to make a free-standing catalyst for generating hydrogen and oxygen that could be made on an industrial scale. oxygen reduction and hydrogen evolution are electrocatalysed in water splitting devices. the best catalysts are usually platinum-based, but they are costly and not very durable, which limits their use on a large scale. one method to overcome this limitation is electrospinning, which makes fibres that can be used to create scalable electrocatalysts. the problem with these catalysts so far is that they have a limited number of accessible active sites and inefficient mass transport pathways. now, a group led by shengjie peng from the national university of singapore and xiaohong qin from donghua university solved this issue. the team made porous channel-rich carbon nanofibres from a blend of pyrolysed electrospun polyacrylonitrile and cellulose acetate nanofibres. during synthesis, the cellulose acetate decomposed, creating the much-needed active sites and mass transport pathways to enhance catalytic performance. iron-based precursors were added to the spinning solution as cheap and efficient electrocatalysts. using the new material, peng and co-workers were able to create a 180 x 80cm electrocatalyst, which was flexible and stable with good performance. it is now hoped their innovation will catalyse the pathway toward next generation flexible electrodes. the condition of the italian actor left in a coma after a hanging scene went wrong during a live theatrical production is deteriorating, it has been reported. raphael schumacher, 27, was appearing in a production of mirages at the teatro lux in pisa when an audience member realised he was in trouble. pisa today reported the actor was not currently responding to treatment. the newspaper added investigators were satisfied the incident was an accident. keeping actors safe they will now try to identify if the theatre was negligent in following safety standards. police launched an investigation after sealing off the theatre at the weekend, and interviewed members of the cast and audience. it concluded the incident was an accident after speaking to the audience member - believed to be a recent medical graduate - who helped schumacher. the theatre-goer went to assist the actor - who was wearing a bag over his head - after seeing his body was trembling, and lowered him to the ground. schumacher was taken to hospital but remains in a coma. the actor reportedly changed the ending of the scene, which was meant to involve a gun rather than see him hanging. we extend the notion of phase transformations to periodic cellular materials by introducing materials whose unit cells have multiple stable configurations. each stable configuration of the unit cell corresponds to a stable phase, and transitions between these phases are regarded as phase transformations of the cellular material. we present a cellular material that exhibits phase transformation, identify key elements of the unit cell geometry that yield its mechanical behavior and introduce an analytical model that describes its constitutive behavior. cellular materials that exhibit phase transformations show hysteresis and their response is characterized by a long serrated loading and unloading plateaus, making these materials attractive for energy absorption applications. while these phase transforming cellular materials offer an energy absorption performance that is comparable to metal and polymeric honeycombs, the key difference is that the deformation on these materials is fully recoverable. medical marijuana crossed party lines at tuesday night's senate debate in louisiana. senator mary landrieu, the democratic incumbent, said she opposes allowing pot for medical purposes, while her republican challenger, representative bill cassidy, a doctor, said he supports it. the partisan split is a bit unusual. democrat-leaning states have embraced medical marijuana more quickly than republican-leaning states, and democrats are generally more supportive of medical marijuana. although landrieu opposes medical marijuana, she appears to be just fine with keg stands on college campuses, as buzzfeed's andrew kaczynski pointed out. the senator was photographed in september helping a man in his late 20s do a keg stand at a louisiana state university tailgating event, the hill reported. excessive drinking causes nearly one in 10 deaths among americans ages 20 to 64, according to a centers for disease control and prevention report published in june. marijuana has never been reported to have caused a deadly overdose, although it may increase the risk of traffic accidents. video loading video unavailable click to play tap to play the video will start in 8 cancel play now this is the moment a bunch of lucky commuters were told they could get a free subway ticket if they did 30 squats. the video, uploaded by youtube user olympic changes, shows the machine being installed in a moscow subway station. a blue sticker on the floor signals where to stand and it is placed directly next to the ordinary machines. the camera then follows the different reactions as people figure out it's not a joke, and they really are about to get a free ride in exchange for shedding a bit of weight. from young children to adults, everyone has a go, and the smile at the end must make the 30 squats worth it. people crowd around to watch the daring fitness fanatics have a go, and soon form a queue to try it themselves. google maps has incorporated train timetables for a while now, but it's never accounted for the inevitable delays and cancellations that plague uk networks. you would select what you think is the fastest route, only to stand around on the platform wishing you had called a taxi instead. well, that could be less of a problem in the future, if you're a google maps user at least, because today the company has added real-time national rail data to its travel app. so if yet another signal failure is disrupting your line, the app should reflect that automatically and give you some alternative routes. in addition, you can now swipe around the map and tap on any uk rail station to review the next departures -- helpful if you're stuck in the middle of nowhere and need to start making tracks. kept in overcrowded cells; they are denied toothbrushes, toothpaste, and soap; they are subjected to the constant stench of excrement and refuse in their congested cells; they are surrounded by walls smeared with mucus and blood; they are kept in the same clothes for days and weeks without access to laundry or clean underwear; they step on top of other inmates, whose bodies cover nearly the entire uncleaned cell floor, in order to access a single shared toilet that the city does not clean; they develop untreated illnesses and infections in open wounds that spread to other inmates; they endure days and weeks without being allowed to use the moldy shower; their filthy bodies huddle in cold temperatures with a single thin blanket even as they beg guards for warm blankets; they are not given adequate hygiene products for menstruation; they are routinely denied vital medical care and prescription medication, even when their families beg to be allowed to bring medication to the jail; they are provided food so insufficient and lacking in nutrition that inmates lose significant amounts of weight; they suffer from dehydration out of fear of drinking foul smelling water that comes from an apparatus on top of the toilet; and they must listen to the screams of other inmates languishing from unattended medical issues as they sit in their cells without access to books, legal materials, television, or natural light. queens park rangers are set to loan joey barton to the championship in an attempt to run down his 12-game suspension at the start of next season. barton was handed a lengthy ban following his dismissal against manchester city on the final day of last season and has been stripped of the captaincy at loftus road. the greater volume of league games over the early part of the campaign in the championship means the 29-year-old midfielder could be available for qpr by november. blackburn are reportedly leading the race for barton, while nottingham forest have also expressed an interest. winger david worrall scored a superb free-kick to defeat bury and keep alive southend's hopes of gaining automatic promotion from league two. ex-bury man worrall curled in from 25 yards to take his side level on points with third-placed wycombe wanderers. tom soares, joe riley and danny rose went close for bury, who had started the game a point ahead of the visitors. but they could not find a goal despite the backing of more than 8,000 fans who were all admitted for free. the offer was made after the original fixture was abandoned in march because of heavy rain with less than 10 minutes played and the club's biggest home crowd for nearly 18 years turned up. despite bury having the better of the first half, southend forced their way into the game and substitute worrall made the decisive intervention in the 74th minute after kelvin etuhu fouled jack payne. nathan cameron had a chance to equalise late on but headed wide before ryan lowe was denied by goalkeeper daniel bentley, who ensured his and southend's seventh successive clean sheet. the legal age for consensual anal sex in queensland has been lowered to 16 years, in line with other consensual sexual activity, and the word "sodomy" removed from the criminal code. the queensland parliament voted to remove the longstanding source of discrimination in queensland's criminal code on thursday night. the age of consent for anal sex has been lowered from 18 to 16, in line with other sexual activities. credit:ashley corbin-teich previously in queensland, the age of consent was 18 for anal intercourse but 16 for all other sexual activity. an panel of health experts met in may this year to consider changes to the criminal code and found that bringing the age of consent for anal intercourse in line with other sexual activity would improve sexual health. more ps2 emulation titles for ps4 leaked? sony computer entertainment europe today filed trademarks for several titles from its ps2 catalog of games, gematsu discovered. the list of trademarks include: yesterday, a video published early leaked dark cloud as one of the ps2 titles coming to playstation 4 via ps2 emulation. these trademarks are likely some of the others. a few other titles leaked before these, however, including dark cloud 2, ape escape 2, and twisted metal: black. on a more speculative note, capcom recently trademarked onimusha, also a ps2 title, leading many to believe a new title is in the works. but perhaps rather it is coming to playstation 4 as a ps2 emulation title? major league soccer has suspended los angeles galaxy star david beckham for one game for his actions during a game at san jose last week, which included kicking the ball at an opposing player while he was down. the galaxy midfielder was also fined an undisclosed amount. beckham was given a yellow card during a stoppage late in the galaxy's 4-3 loss to san jose on saturday when he kicked the ball at injured earthquakes midfielder sam cronin, who was on the ground in the earthquakes' penalty box. story continues below advertisement the ball struck cronin and set off a near melee between players from the two teams. beckham will serve his suspension sunday when the galaxy play the fire in chicago. he already served a one-game suspension for yellow card accumulation on wednesday during the galaxy's 2-1 loss to the philadelphia union. the league also hit galaxy head coach bruce arena and montreal head coach jesse marsch with undisclosed fines for criticizing officials. i was very delighted to open this package on christmas. when i opened it, i found that it was an american flag with a bracelet included. i've been wanting to get a flag for some time now, and was pleased to find it inside. however, this flag also had a very touching story to go with it. this flag was sent to me by an army ranger who had carried this on over 60 night raids from july to december. and it was also there during the recovery of a helicopter crash that was shot down with an rpg. this was the reason the bracelet was included. inscribed were the names of two close friends who had lost their lives. this was hands down, the best thing i could have ever received for christmas, and i am proud to display this flag in my house. a teenage apprentice mechanic at audi killed himself after bully colleagues burned his clothes and locked him in a cage, an inquest has heard. george cheese, 18, was "over the moon" when he got the position at the car dealership, his parents said, but soon started coming home covered in bruises and had multiple holes burned into his clothes. a coroner heard that on one occasion, the young man said his colleagues had locked him in a cage at the garage by force, doused him in a flammable liquid and set fire to his clothes. his father, keith cheese, told the inquest that he would never forgive himself for missing the warning signs leading to his son's death. he said that his son had approached him and tried to start a conversation the day he killed himself but he had not looked up, captivated by a pre-recorded golf tournament on the tv. george committed suicide on 9 april 2016, around six months after he started working for audi. today nvidia is expanding their gameworks developer program to the realm of android devices. gameworks encompasses a range of nvidia technologies and tools like physx, visualfx, optix, and the nvidia core sdk which allows developers to program for nvidia gpus using nvapi instead of apis like directx or opengl. it also includes many tools to help developers test and debug their games. androidworks aims to simplify the experience of developing games on android. it includes a number of libraries for developers to use, along with sample code. it also includes a number of tools for profiling performance and debugging. while androidworks is based on nvidia's existing tegra android developer pack, it is not limited to being used on nvidia devices. nvidia has tested androidworks programs on a number of devices, including the x86 based asus memopad and google nexus player, as well as other arm devices like the nexus 7 and the galaxy tab s. to improve on the native development experience offered by the android sdk and ndk, the tools and sdk included with androidworks integrate with microsoft's visual studio ide on windows. nvidia plans to provide frequent updates to androidworks, and they hope that it will become the tool of choice for game developers targeting android. the survey, conducted by market research firm gfk in 22 countries, found that 47 percent of the 27,000 people polled thought that "providing good jobs for people" should be companies' top priority. "producing good quality products or services" took second place with 41 percent, and "being environmentally responsible" ranked third at 37 percent. when divided by gender, women named "protecting the health and safety of its workers" as their number-three priority. in china, this aspect even ranked highest overall; in hong kong it came in second. although known for its environmentally friendly policies, germans did not rate companies' responsibility for the environment as highly as people in other countries in the survey. in mexico, "being environmentally responsible" is named the top priority for companies; in turkey, argentina, canada, china and italy it came in second. in the us, it ranked third. while in the uk and belgium a high number of those polled find it important that companies pay their fair share of taxes, this ranked as a low priority in germany, for example. the 27,000 participants were polled online and were asked to choose their top three priorities out of 13 options. oscar-winning film director ang lee is branching out into television, after it was announced he will direct the pilot episode of new series, tyrant. the show marks lee's first project since the 2012 film life of pi, which saw the taiwanese filmmaker win his second academy award last month. tyrant follows an ordinary american family caught up in the affairs of a turbulent middle eastern nation. shooting for the show on us cable channel fx will begin this summer. the team behind the drama includes homeland's howard gordon and gideon raff, who will act as executive producers. "ang lee has demonstrated time and again an ability to present characters with such depth and specificity that they reveal the universal human condition," said fx president john landgraf in a statement. lee, whose previous credits include the martial arts film crouching tiger, hidden dragon, jane austen adaptation sense and sensibility and comic book blockbuster hulk, saw his latest film win a total of four oscars in february. aside from best director, the 3d film - based on the booker-winning novel about a shipwrecked boy and a bengal tiger - won awards for cinematography, score and visual effects. the director, 58, won his first best director oscar in 2006, for cowboy romance brokeback mountain. geno smith isn't running from the new york media. the new york giants are expected to sign free-agent quarterback smith, reports espn's adam schefter and jordan raanan. smith will take a physical with the team this weekend and is expected to sign monday barring any medical issues, a source told schefter. assuming he has recovered well from an acl tear suffered in october, smith will be reunited with former new york jets teammate brandon marshall as a backup to eli manning. smith started 29 games for the jets through his first two seasons, but infamously lost his starting job before the 2015 season due to a broken jaw courtesy of then-teammate ik enemkpali. the 26-year-old has made one start in the last two years, which came in week 7 of last season, though he tore his acl after throwing just eight passes. the horrific overdose deaths of two young men from the hunter region after they were "cooked from the inside" have prompted fears about the possible re-emergence of killer synthetic drugs. both men died on thursday following separate long and violent psychotic episodes during which their core temperatures rose to fatal levels, one to more than 42 degrees. they were also known users of methamphetamine, and are believed to have used the drug in the days leading up to their deaths, but authorities believe toxicology tests and autopsies could show they succumbed to a substance other than ice. "i know it's the old message, but this really shows that people have absolutely no idea what they are taking; and it could well be killing them," one senior detective told fairfax media. collingwood could be without skipper scott pendlebury for the rest of the season after he underwent a second round of surgery to repair his broken finger on monday night. the 29-year-old injured the finger against gold coast and missed sunday's win against west coast after having an operation last week. buckley said the second operation was required to put wire into the bone to help repair the finger, which ruled pendlebury out for at least four weeks. with five games remaining the coach conceded it was touch and go as to whether the captain would play again this year. he said pendlebury was sore after the operation. "it's another four weeks from now to make sure he heals appropriately and he is disappointed with that, as we are," buckley said on tuesday. the coach said his message to pendlebury was to get back as quickly as he could given the season was still alive, but there was no point being silly. "he's pragmatic about it, we're pragmatic about it," buckley said. looks like siff is getting a red hot nerd injection this year: start the festival in style with the siff 2013 opening night gala! the evening features the seattle premiere of much ado about nothing, with director joss whedon and cast members alexis denisof, amy acker, nathan fillion, and clark gregg scheduled to attend. follow the link to buy tickets. we did a slog poll on the trailer of whedon's much ado adaptation, and slog is apparently very excited about this movie. i'm thinking a whole lot of people are dying to see whedon and his crew in person on opening night, too, which means this could be the biggest siff opening night gala yet. it's definitely going to be the nerdiest. square enix and developer gumi have released the 7th updates video for the global version of final fantasy brave exvius. in the video shaly, producer hiroki fujimoto, dah sol and charlie discuss the recently announced fan festa, a new raid event titled vision of bahamut, new units called reberta and zyrus, a new demon trial boss, answer fan questions and show off fan art. but the biggest news is that they're working on releasing the game on other platforms. they did not reveal any platforms in particular but steam was mentioned in the question and seems very likely since square enix released mobius final fantasy and heavenstrike rivals on steam. in addition they also revealed that a nier automata collaboration is coming. you can check it all out below. the journey through the history of rock music continues with the story of two of america's biggest and most authentic bands: nirvana and rem. the rock marathon continues with the story of the contrasting fates of two of america's biggest, most authentic bands: nirvana and rem and the hidden links between them that almost saved the life of troubled nirvana singer kurt cobain. in 1991, nirvana's nevermind album launched the 'grunge' explosion that put the seattle music scene on the map and gave a voice to the alienated youth pushed to one side by the reagan revolution. but cobain was a reluctant idol who struggled to cope with his new status and his band's growing mainstream appeal. nirvana had their roots in the underground and college music scene pioneered by bands like rem and pixies and this programme tells how rem also ended up gravitating towards seattle, where a friendship developed between lead singer michael stipe and cobain. in the end it was not enough to save cobain, who killed himself in 1994, but his triumph and tragedy continues to cast a powerful shadow over the whole of rock. time only knows the price we have to pay; if i could tell you i would let you know. if we should weep when clowns put on their show, if we should stumble when musicians play, time will say nothing but i told you so. there are no fortunes to be told, although, because i love you more than i can say, if i could tell you i would let you know. the winds must come from somewhere when they blow, there must be reason why the leaves decay; time will say nothing but i told you so. perhaps the roses really want to grow, the vision seriously intends to stay; if i could tell you i would let you know. suppose the lions all get up and go, and the brooks and soldiers run away; will time say nothing but i told you so? if i could tell you i would let you know. an indonesian diplomat in saudi arabia has criticised the overturning of a saudi woman's conviction for beating and torturing her indonesian maid. didi wahyudi told the bbc the original three-year prison sentence had been seen as a landmark verdict, but now, he said, there was no example of a torturer being brought to justice. saudi arabia has made no comment. tens of thousands of indonesian women work in saudi homes, and many complain of abuse by their employers. in the past few days, two people have been arrested in mecca in connection with the violent death of their indonesian maid. a number of cases of abuse of migrant domestic workers have come to light in saudi arabia over recent years. however, perpetrators have rarely faced punishment greater than a fine. 'no justice' sumiati binti salan mustapa, 23, was admitted to hospital in november with broken bones and burns to her face and body. her case received worldwide attention, and prompted the indonesian president to demand justice for her "torture". the maid's 53-year-old female employer was sentenced to three years in jail in january by a court in the saudi city of medina. she appealed against the sentence and was acquitted on saturday after a judge deemed there was insufficient evidence. didi wahyudi, from the indonesian consulate in saudi arabia, told the bbc the verdict could have been a landmark. "had the first verdict not been overturned by the appeals court it would have been historic; the first time an indonesian domestic worker was able to take their employer to court and then to prison. "since the sentence was not recognised and overturned, it means all the torturers are free. there is no evidence, there is no case and there is no example that the torturer could be brought to justice," mr wahyudi told bbc indonesian. an explosion at a coal mine in north-eastern colombia has killed 21, officials say. the blast at the la preciosa mine in sardinata is thought to have been caused by a gas build-up. in february 2007 a gas explosion at the same mine killed more than 30 workers. the colombian mining minister, carlos rodado, ordered the mine be closed indefinitely and said the supervision of mines across the country would be stepped up. emergency teams were at first unable to enter the mine because of a rock collapse and the danger of gas, officials said. tv images showed anxious friends and relatives watching from the mine entrance hoping that their loved ones would be pulled out alive. the bbc's jeremy mcdermott in colombia said the small mine was rudimentary with only basic safety measures. the blast happened early on wednesday morning just as a change of shift was taking place. sardinata is in colombia's norte de santander department near the border with venezuela. last june an explosion at the san fernando mine in amaga, antioquia province, north-west colombia, killed 70 miners. in november, nine workers died at two mines in the cundinamarca region. colombia is one of the world's largest coal exporters and has the second-largest reserves in south america, after brazil. although conditions for miners in south america have improved radically over recent decades, there are still many accidents. a secret service agent on vice president mike pence's detail was arrested late last week and charged with solicitation after he allegedly had an encounter with a prostitute at a maryland hotel room. authorities were tipped off by the hotel's manager when he became alarmed by suspicious activity. police later caught the off-duty agent leaving the prostitute's room when they arrived, according to cnn. after the agent self-reported his arrest to the secret service, he was suspended and forced to surrender his equipment, including weapons, and was placed on administrative leave. his security clearance was also revoked. "the secret service is aware of an alleged incident involving an off-duty secret service employee. the secret service takes allegations of criminal activity very seriously. this matter is being investigated by our office of professional responsibility to determine the facts," a spokesperson for the agency said in a statement. the rasping of gilman is a tale of social misfits standing together against the town jerks, and ultimately the town itself. the titular gilman, last of his name, has been living in his step-father's basement for years, surviving off of decades-old army rations and solitude. he hits it off with some b-movie geeks, who get him interested in bad cinema and revenge. a lot of the book is day-to-day interactions that don't do much to drive the overall plot, but the characters are good enough to keep a day in the life interesting. it's clear milligan knows about life as a nerd in a small town. along the way, we get to watch a few bad movies with the gang. i'm a bit of a jaded horror reader, and while this isn't a horror story, i thought milligan's use of gore was pretty effective. even though the book opens with a guy getting his finger severed, the violent parts always manage to be surprising and kind of shocking. i think it's because the overall tone is pretty lighthearted and humorous, lowering your defenses before things get gross. when it does get nasty, it feels more like schlock-film fun than a depressing venture into darkness. the mystery of the westerly object just off the coast of a westerly beach will continue to be a mystery for now. peter brockmann, president of the east beach association, said divers went out to inspect the object over the weekend. however, the object is now covered in two feet of sand according to brockmann. a crew was going to try to pull the object out of the water last week, but the plan was scrubbed because of high surf from hurricane gert. apparently that storm was the culprit in covering up the object. brockmann told nbc10 that there is absolutely no way of predicting if and when mother nature will shift the sand back off the object. the association is still exploring options to blast the sand away by high pressure water at low tide. brockmann is hoping to have updated information later in the week. my students need a document projector and stand to help them share their work with classmates, get feedback from them, and help everyone learn. my students at our school, we ask children to take on the responsibility for their own learning. a huge part of this responsibility includes sharing work, explaining the process, and fielding comments and questions. the size of notebooks and standard paper just makes it very challenging for everyone to see. our students enjoy sharing their thinking and ideas with their class community. when a child shares, the presenter explains their work and a sophisticated discussion generally ensues about the thinking behind the work. students genuinely enjoy the discussion and the respectful disagreements that arise. each child feels responsible for helping their community understand new ways of thinking. my project a document projector simply projects any image onto a screen. we already have a multimedia projector, which we use to show videos and teach interactive lessons on a computer. this document projector supports learning immensely, because it allows every child in the class community to see the piece of work under discussion. whether it's the solution to a math problem, a piece of writing, or a page in a book, the document projector enables everyone to follow along. many students get frustrated and serious confusion can arise only some students are able to clearly see the work being discussed. the power of learning in a community lives in exchange of ideas about a shared work. your donation helps foster children's critical thinking, conversational skills, and a sense of responsibility for their own learning. prev next image 2 of 3 prev image 3 of 3 pakistan's interior minister has warned hundreds of radical islamists rallying for the past four days in central islamabad to disperse peacefully and end their protest within hours. the minister, chaudhry nisar ali khan, said late tuesday that if the islamists fail to do so, the government would disperse them by force. the rally turned violent on sunday, when more than 10,000 islamists from pakistan's sunni tehreek group descended on the capital to denounce last month's hanging of officer mumtaz qadri for the 2011 murder of secular gov. salman taseer who had campaigned against pakistan's harsh blasphemy laws. since the start of the rally, the crowds have dwindled down to about 1,200 people. the protesters also demand the hanging of a jailed christian woman whom taseer had defended against blasphemy allegations. a delhi university student was sodomised and had dogs set upon him for his friendship with a girl whose father allegedly got his henchmen to torture him, police here said thursday. the father has been arrested and the hunt is on for his accomplices. the incident came to light wednesday, said a police official in ghaziabad, neighbouring the indian capital. detailing what had happened, the official said robin kasana, a student of delhi university, was friends with a co-student. both lived in the same semi-rural neighbourhood. when the father rajesh mavi - an influential, affluent man of the area - learnt of their friendship, he allegedly sent four men to abduct robin. the student was then taken to rajesh's farmhouse in the tila-shahbazpur area where one of the men sodomised the student, unleashed dogs on him and even rubbed salt and chillies on his wounds, police said. the culprits then uploaded obscene images on facebook by creating a fake id. the buzz of what had happened reached robin's family who reached the farmhouse where they rescued their son but were also threatened with dire consequences. undeterred, they lodged a complaint with loni police. "we have arrested the main culprit, and raids are being conducted to nab others," said superintendent of police jagdish sharma. president-elect donald trump took to twitter on saturday to say that the "only reason" the hacking of democratic email accounts was being discussed was because of the party's embarrassment over the size of its election loss in november. his early-morning assessment came in a series of tweets on the subject and the morning after the release of a declassified report by us intelligence agencies that concluded russia carried out a comprehensive cyber campaign to sabotage the presidential election and sought to aid trump over democrat hillary clinton. saturday morning's tweets were the latest from trump to portray the episode in starkly partisan terms, even as some senior republicans in congress have called for harsher sanctions against russia than recently ordered by president barack obama. "only reason the hacking of the poorly defended dnc is discussed is that the loss by the dems was so big that they are totally embarrassed!" trump said in one of his tweets, referring to an election in which clinton won the popular vote but he prevailed in the electoral college. first off, at 2,134 pages, this book is big! each of the 9 chapters could easily comprise an entire book in and of themselves. the technologies we cover include html, php, mysql, javascript, wordpress, laravel, object oriented programming, linux, and virtualization. it is important to have a very strong foundation of core skills as a web developer. too often, new developers find themselves attracted to the latest buzz worthy trends, and often become frustrated if things go wrong and they do not have the supporting foundation level knowledge. this is why we start with the basics in this book: html, php, mysql, javascript, and linux. even if you are comfortable here, it helps to have a solid refresher on the topics. then we take a dive headfirst into more advanced topics like d3 javascript charting, vuejs, the laravel framework, oop solid principles, and server virtualization. the writing in this book is heavily supported with tons of code samples for all topics covered, making it very approachable for beginners. intermediate and more experienced developers will also find this book to be an invaluable resource to have in their stack of learning material! the queen's royal staff have reportedly been called from across the uk to an emergency meeting at buckingham palace but the bbc says the meeting is not about the health of the queen or her husband, prince philip. the news of the meeting, from "sources", has sent the internet into meltdown as the monarch's aides and team members from as far as balmoral in scotland to her sandringham estate in norfolk and windsor castle head to the city residence for a meeting mid-morning. the bbc reported the meeting was not believed to be a cause for concern and such meetings happened about once a year. bbc royal correspondent peter hunt said he understood the meeting was not about the health of the queen or the duke of edinburgh. according to the daily mail, the staff will be addressed by the most senior officer of the royal household, lord chamberlain, and the queen's private secretary, sir christopher geidt. the us has reinforced medical staff at guantanamo bay to try to handle a spreading hunger strike by prisoners at the detention facility. about 40 nurses and other specialists arrived at the weekend, camp spokesman lt col samuel house said. he said that 100 of 166 detainees were now on hunger strike, with 21 of them being force-fed through a tube. the inmates are protesting against their indefinite detention. most are being held without charge. the hunger strike started at the us facility in cuba in february and has grown rapidly in recent weeks. although such actions are frequent at guantanamo, the current protest is one of the longest and most widespread. guantanamo officials deny claims that the strike began after copies of the koran were mishandled during searches of prisoners' cells. violence erupted at the prison on 13 april as the authorities moved inmates out of communal cellblocks where they had covered surveillance cameras and windows. some prisoners used "improvised weapons" and were met with "less-than-lethal rounds", camp officials said, but no serious injuries were reported. nearly 100 of the detainees have reportedly been cleared for release but remain at the facility because of restrictions imposed by congress and also concerns of possible mistreatment if they are sent back to their home countries. the military detention centre opened in 2002 to hold suspects captured in counter-terrorism operations after the 11 september 2001 attacks in the us. afghan president hamid karzai has won the endorsement of tribal elders and community leaders to negotiate a 10-year strategic partnership with the us. the proposed pact would see the presence of us troops after 2014, the date for foreign troops to leave. but delegates at the loya jirga, or traditional assembly, in the capital kabul, set conditions for a pact. the jirga's decisions are not legally binding, with parliament having the final say. 'end to night raids' while delegates at the four-day loya jirga gave their blessing to the pact, they also imposed conditions which may make it harder for an agreement to be reached, says the bbc's orla guerin in kabul. negotiations have already dragged on for close to a year. delegates demanded an end to night raids - which are hated by afghans, but seen as crucial by us commanders. they also called for detainees to be placed in afghan custody, and for us nationals who commit crimes in afghanistan to be held to account. the assembly also endorsed peace talks with taliban members who wish to abandon violence. but it is unclear if there is anyone to talk to. the nhl entry draft is an integral part of the hockey world. it keeps young talent flowing into the league while the aging talent exits on the other end of the spectrum. in many ways it provides the oil for the machine that is the nhl. now whether or not a team has a successful draft is completely up to interpretation. different teams go into each draft looking for different types of players to fill their needs. in some cases it takes time in order for a player to reach his full potential, so it may take several seasons before one can really say that a certain pick really worked or was a huge bust for a team. so what better time than now, during the dog days of summer, than to look back at the first ten drafts of the new millennium and see exactly how the kings fared with their selections. do you ever do that thing where you listen to a song while watching something totally irrelevant? it works really well with spacey kinda shoegaze. you can turn on an old movie and suddenly every happy family moment, or over-acted scene suddenly becomes rife with the weird undertones the music implies. nostalgist is a band that would probably welcome that kind of cross-stream. they're a post-punk trio from seattle, wa and their music sounds like putting hum and smashing pumpkins into a kaleidoscope, and staring at the beautiful colors that come out. their new song "pull of the plow" is a lowend romp into different scenery. you start the song in a grungy riff that some kids from the wrong side of the tracks would end up, into some post-punk jam out of a dingy club. the perfect song to get filthy to. check out the album below, and order your copy of the record right here. cpython uses reference counting to keep track of an object's liveness. it's a legitimate and widely used strategy, relatively easy to implement. but it's also a pita if you're not used to having to deal with it. the cpython api complicates reference counting somewhat: depending on where you are in the c api, references can be new, borrowed, stolen, or copied. functions return new and borrowed references. a new reference means you now own it, and are responsible for decrementing the reference count when you're done. a borrowed reference means you get to look, but if you want to keep the object you'll have to increment the reference count. stolen and copied references on the other hand are passed to functions as arguments. stolen references mean you are no longer responsible for decrementing the reference count. if a function copies the reference, you're still responsible for your reference to the object. in c, that's not so bad. you have to understand what every function is doing with your reference, but which behavior each function exhibits is chosen in a way that generally saves you lines of code. so there's less manual reference-count adjustment than there might otherwise be at the c level. but for me, it definitely adds complication. i try to ensure my users never have to deal with reference counts, by dealing with them automatically. but all those possible side-effects on the reference counts from each function mean i have to deal with a tiny explosion of possibilities. and, as i'm sure you're all aware, the more possibilities there are, the harder it is to check them all and their interactions with each other. in spite of a lot of thinking, i'm still not confident i've gotten all the refcnt bugs worked out on my end. dr janina ramirez begins her series by exploring how monasteries evolved from a cult of isolation and self-deprivation into powerhouses of anglo-saxon art, industry and learning. dr janina ramirez explores how monasteries evolved from a cult of extreme isolation and self-deprivation into powerhouses of anglo-saxon art, industry and learning. janina begins her journey on the desolate rock of skellig st michael off the east coast of ireland, home to the oldest surviving monastery in the british isles. she investigates the harsh lives led by these early monks, and tells the story of the arrival of hermetic irish monasticism in anglo-saxon northumberland. monasteries such as lindisfarne and whitby became beacons of civilisation and literature in the barbaric anglo-saxon world, creating wondrous works of art including the lindisfarne gospels and st cuthbert's pectoral cross. a rival form of regimented, communal monasticism was imported into southern britain from rome, and janina reveals the holy struggle that ensued between these two opposing monastic ideals. the victors would transform the culture and landscape of england, until they too were destroyed by a new wave of barbarian invaders. bayern munich boss pep guardiola says he will give "clarity" on his future at the bundesliga champions next week. the 44-year-old spaniard, who has been linked with manchester city, has led bayern to two titles since taking over in 2013 but is out of contract in june. he would not answer questions about his future on tuesday, but indicated an announcement would soon follow. spanish newspaper marca reported on wednesday that guardiola has already told bayern he will leave the club. the madrid-based publication claims he believes both he and the club would benefit from a change of scenery because his intense work ethic can wear players down. reports in spain last month claimed the former barcelona coach had agreed to leave bayern at the end of the season to take over at manchester city. the bavarian giants hold a five-point lead in the german league as they prepare for their final game of 2015 - at hannover on saturday. image: aldf new orleans - an animal rights group is suing to get a chimpanzee named candy out of an amusement park where, it says, she smokes cigarettes and is given soft drinks instead of water. the federal lawsuit says candy is in an inadequate cage at the baton rouge park, and should be moved to a sanctuary. the animal legal defense fund sued tuesday in baton rouge on behalf of two women who have campaigned to get candy moved from the dixie landin' park. the lawsuit says the women have seen visitors throw lit cigarettes into candy's cage for the chimp to smoke. attorney carter dillard says the lawsuit is the first filed under a new federal rule that requires captive chimps get the same protection as wild chimps. park owner sam haynes did not immediately respond to a request for comment. new laws will allow authorities to collect and monitor australians' internet records, including their web-browsing history, social media activity and emails. but the laws, which will specifically target suspected cyber criminals, do not go as far as separate proposed laws designed to retain every australian internet user's internet history for two years in the name of national security. police will have the authority to compel isps to retain the internet records of suspects of cyber-based crimes. under the laws passed yesterday, australian state and federal police will have the power to compel telcos and internet service providers to retain the internet records of people suspected of cyber-based crimes, including fraud and child pornography. only those records made after the request will be retained, but law enforcement agencies will be prevented from seeing the information until they have secured a warrant. it is believed that while some telcos and internet service providers keep data for up to a week, others routinely delete users' data daily, frustrating the ability of authorities to gather evidence against suspects. elon musk and tesla like to make magic happen via firmware updates. the billionaire entrepreneur teased on twitter today that the company is "about to end range anxiety" via an over-the-air software update for all model s vehicles. that's all the information we have, but musk says we'll find out more this thursday at 9am pt. "range anxiety," of course, refers to the worry and stress felt by electric car drivers as their battery life begins to drop. since high-speed chargers like tesla's own superchargers are few and far between, and since regular chargers take so long, electric car drivers often feel they must get to their destination before running out of juice. tesla has worked to expand its network of superchargers to address those concerns, but if musk hopes to end range anxiety with a software update, it's possible that engineers have found a way to eke more life out of the model s' batteries. continuing its year of mass outages, telstra has apologised to thousands of victorians who lost nbn services on saturday. complaints surfaced online indicating faults with nbn services provided through telstra, across melbourne, ballarat, warragul and other regional areas. these complaints indicate the problem existed from at least mid-afternoon and peaked around 7pm. service restoration continued during the night. telstra has acknowledged this outage occurred, stating the root cause was a faulty switch at the exhibition st exchange. as part of legislation surrounding the nbn when nbn services become available there is a fixed time period where residents and businesses must switch over before older infrastructure is disabled and no longer available for use. as such, these affected telstra nbn customers lost voice and data and could not make calls or connect to the internet. telstra states the faulty switch problem was fixed by 7:30pm on saturday evening with services progressively restored as the night continued. roger milla has lost his record as the oldest footballer to represent an african national team to 43-year-old mauritius striker kersley appou. cameroon's milla set the previous mark when scoring in a 6-1 defeat against russia in the 1994 world cup at the age of 42 years and 39 days. he still holds the record as the oldest player and goal scorer at a world cup. appou played in mauritius's africa cup of nations qualifying defeat against mauritania on saturday. he was 43 years and 354 days old, which is still short of macdonald taylor sr, from the us virgin islands, who holds the world record of 46 years and 217 days. "i plan to continue playing," said appou, who was a substitute in the 1-0 first-round, first-leg defeat. milla played in three world cups, and was one of the stars of the 1990 finals at the age of 38 after coming out of retirement to lead cameroon to the quarter-finals. his goal celebration of dancing around a corner flag has become iconic. if ordering a custom or personalized item, it is your responsibility to correctly provide the information required to complete the order. coupon codes must be used during checkout. we will not give partial refunds for missing coupon codes. you must provide a good ship to address to guarantee delivery of your order. please check your ship to address when you place your order and if changes need to be made we must be notified the same day the order was placed. once a package ships we can't reroute it while in transit. please read the description for the item you are purchasing. the description includes the dimensions of the item. if you are unsure how large an item is after reading the dimensions, it would be advisable to look at a tape measure or measuring stick to compare. when in doubt contact us for additional information or help at any time. we strive to offer great customer service and are willing to help and answer questions and concerns. it is especially important to teach children who want to pick up a cat these warning signs. you want them to only pick up a cat who is feeling calm and relaxed and who trusts them. you don't want a child to end up getting scratched by a cat who doesn't want to be held. most cats will be able to give you a definite sign that they don't want to be picked up. though you can slowly calm down and earn the trust of domestic cats by petting their heads, you shouldn't try to pick up a cat who is either irritated or just not in the mood to be picked up. if the cat tries to run away from you or bites or scratches you, or just starts swatting at you, then it may be time to try to pick up the cat later. an outbreak of legionnaires' disease in new york - largest in the city's history - has left at least 12 people dead and health officials scrambling to contain the deadly bacteria. more than 100 cases have been reported in the south bronx, one of the city's poorest neighbourhoods. officials have traced the legionella bacteria to cooling towers in more than a dozen buildings. the elderly are especially at risk from this form of pneumonia. all but one of the 12 victims were older than 40 years old and all of them had underlying health problems. cleaning crews have been dispatched across the bronx to kill the bacteria. the disease is not transmitted person to person. it is primarily spread via air conditioning and similar systems. image copyright ap image caption new york mayor bill de blasio has been criticised over the city's response to the outbreak "we are dealing with a new set of realities we have never experienced that we have never encountered before in this city,'' new york mayor bill de blasio said on monday. the disease has a 10-day incubation period, which has caused a lag in the reporting of cases. but mr de blasio and new york health officials believe that there has not been a new case since 3 august. the response has been muddled by a lack of coordination between city and state health officials. on monday, new york governor andrew cuomo and mr de blasio held duelling news conferences, at times offering conflicting information. the response to the outbreak is the latest in a series of incidents where the men - democrats who claimed to be friends - have been at odds. with all eyes on turkey's referendum vote on sunday, one wikipedia user decided it was his or her chance to take a swipe at turkish president recep tayyip erdogan, who stands to have his power consolidated as a result of the "yes" vote. in the first sentence of the english-language wikipedia article on erdogan, the user called the turkish president a dictator. the edit has since been removed and cannot be edited by unregistered users for at least one week. the english-language wikipedia entry for president erdogan, as it appeared ca. 20:00 utc on sunday, april 16 the user is not alone in criticizing erdogan. following the attempted military coup in july 2016, turkey has been under a state of emergency that has been strongly criticized by foreign leaders as heading down the path towards a dictatorship. the state of emergency gives the turkish government the power to fire state employees and extended the time suspects can be held in jail without being charged. more than 100,000 people, including soldiers, police officers and teachers have been removed from their positions since the start of the state of emergency. at least 40,000 people have been arrested following the attempted coup in turkey for suspected links to us-based muslim cleric fethullah gulen, who turkey accuses of influencing last year's attempted coup. sunday's referendum vote is set to consolidate erdogan's powers, including the right to create budgets, dissolve parliament, and appoint and dismiss government ministers or judges without parliamentary approval. a white teenager who moved from south africa to america six years ago was suspended from school after nominating himself for a "distinguished african-american student of the year" prize. trevor richards, 16, was accused of "showing disrespect" to black pupils at westside high school in omaha, nebraska. it is thought he is the only pupil to have lived in africa. he and two friends put up campaign posters showing him making a thumbs-up sign and all three were suspended. "the posters were intended to be satire on the term 'african-american'," said one of his campaign managers, scott rambo. the phrase is the current politically correct label for black americans. but the satire misfired, not least because it was aired on martin luther king day, a holiday marking the black preacher's role in the civil rights struggle. daw is an imprint of penguin that is open to manuscript submissions from authors without an agent. this is unusual and a great opportunity. daw is a highly respected publisher of science fiction and fantasy. daw has published authors such as marion zimmer bradley and roger zelazny. daw has published many bestselling books and they have published hugo award winning books. they are respected and very popular. daw novels vary in length, but they are rarely contain less than 80,000 words, so keep that in mind. they have a fairly long wait time for responses if the book makes it past the first reader. however, they have made some efforts to reduce that wait time in recent years. although they ask for exclusive submissions, if you have waited for longer than 3 months, your work can be submitted elsewhere. this is a recent improvement they made to their submission policy. they have previously only accepted hard copy submissions but on december 31st, 2017, they transitioned to digital only submissions. they just reopened to submissions, now accepting only digital submissions through submittable. to learn more visit their website here. you can scroll down the submission guidelines on the main page. league two club bradford city beating aston villa 4-3 on aggregate in the capital one cup semifinals to become the first fourth division club to play in a major cup final since 1962 was a memorable enough moment. bradford captain gary jones made it a bit more memorable for 9-year-old fan and brain tumor survivor jake turton though, when he found turton in the crowd at villa park after the final whistle of the second leg and planted a kiss on his head. bradford had an incredibly difficult path to wembley, having to beat three premier league clubs in wigan, arsenal and finally aston villa. yet that is absolutely incomparable to what jake has had to endure over the last three years. scroll to continue with content ad from the daily mail: jake was diagnosed with the tumour three years ago after it had spread to his spine. he had brain surgery, was in a coma for 10 weeks and had to endure months of chemotherapy before being given the all-clear. he has had to learn to walk and talk again and his favourite club are giving him plenty of reasons to smile. jake's father contacted the club to see if jake could serve as a mascot for the first leg of the semifinal at bradford's valley parade ground. the club agreed and jake led the team out onto the pitch, holding hands with gary jones, before their shock 3-1 first-leg win. so when jones sought out jake two weeks later, with the fairytale job complete, there really was no better way to end the night. sporting intelligence shows the incredible scale of bradford's triumph in global football context. vietnam's prime minister has stepped down after 10 years in office, leaving behind a mixed legacy of promoting failed state enterprises, but at the same time attracting foreign investment and daring to challenge china. in a formal vote on wednesday, 418 members representing 84 percent of the rubber-stamp national assembly "agreed to dismiss" nguyen tan dung from his duties, three months before the end of his term, the government said on its website. the national assembly is scheduled to elect dung's deputy, nguyen xuan phuc, as prime minister on thursday. dung's departure was a mere formality after he lost a leadership battle during the ruling communist party's congress in january. during that vote, dung lost to nguyen phu trong, who was re-elected party general secretary for a second five-year term. in vietnam, the communist party general secretary, the prime minister, and the president form the triumvirate of power. dung was easily the most high-profile prime minister vietnam ever had. he was charismatic, a good orator, and mixed easily with foreign leaders, which raised the country's profile. but within the party he was blamed for the failures of huge state-owned enterprises, including the monumental collapse of the vietnam shipbuilding industry group and vietnam shipping lines. many of the state-owned enterprises ended up with mountains of public debt. dung's policy initiatives "drew criticisms from both conservative and reform elements within the party", jonathan london, a vietnam analyst at the city university of hong kong, said in an email interview. also, dung's closeness with numerous newly and unusually wealthy vietnamese raised suspicions among many. dung took office in 2006 as the global financial crises set in, followed by a global economic slowdown that severely affected vietnam. dung won accolades from the vietnamese people for standing up to china in territorial disputes in the south china sea. today, the flames assigned forward mark jankowski to the ahl's stockton heat and now have 23 players on their opening day roster. forward marek hrivik will start the season on injured reserve. goaltenders 31 - eddie lack 41 - mike smith defencemen 5 - mark giordano 7 - tj brodie 24 - travis hamonic 26 - michael stone 27 - dougie hamilton 44 - matt bartkowski 61 - brett kulak forwards 10 - kris versteeg 11 - mikael backlund 13 - johnny gaudreau 15 - tanner glass 18 - matt stajan 19 - matthew tkachuk 20 - curtis lazar 21 - garnet hathaway 23 - sean monahan 25 - freddie hamilton 36 - troy brouwer 67 - michael frolik 79 - micheal ferland 93 - sam bennett the calgary flames start the 2017-18 nhl season in edmonton on wednesday, october 4th when they face the oilers. the scotiabank home opener is saturday, october 7th at the scotiabank saddledome against the winnipeg jets. limited game day tickets and game packs are available here. for the first time in 30 years, marine life in porlock bay, in somerset, has been studied by divers for a scientific survey commissioned by the wildlife trusts. image copyright dom flint four professional divers took part in the study where they unexpectedly found two different and diverse sea bed habitats. image copyright kat brown crustaceans such as this long clawed squat lobster were recorded in a boulder reef north of gore point in the bristol channel, along with many sponge species. the other site studied was a sand and shell plain in the centre of porlock bay. image copyright kat brown these large molluscs are called sea hares of which several were found during the two dives held at the beginning of august. image copyright other it is the first time this rare stalked jellyfish was recorded in this area. this jellyfish features in the uk biodiversity action plan which means it could need targeted protection in the future as it is sensitive to environmental changes in its habitat. image copyright kat brown divers brought back small samples which have been analysed microscopically so they can be identified by species type. this record will help build up a picture of the biodiversity of each site. this particular species is called a branching sponge. image copyright kat brown on both occasions, divers experienced difficulties in getting to the two dive sites due to strong currents which affected visibility. it is because of these challenges that the sites have not been explored for 30 years. the wildlife trusts said they have been surprised by the variety of species found in this area. they hope by knowing more about the habitat they can conserve it more effectively in the future. an hour dedicated to the music and legacy of the influential and enigmatic nick drake, marking the 65th anniversary of his birth, with special guest joe boyd. mark radcliffe dedicates this week's live programme to the music of the influential and enigmatic nick drake, who would have turned 65 today. during his lifetime, nick's career stuttered and stalled, hampered to varying degrees by his depression and reluctance to perform in public. but decades after his tragic death at the age of 26, his music would find a wide and reverent audience. nick drake left relatively little music behind; only three 'proper' studio albums were recorded. but those recordings were beautiful, heavy with meaning and mood and, ultimately, very influential on subsequent generations of like-minded songwriters. on this week's folk show, mark radcliffe is joined by joe boyd - who produced two of nick's albums for island records, as well as records for fairport convention, the incredible string band and pink floyd - to reflect on nick drake's life and legacy. the north korean regime has resettled some 10,000 households to build a 270 km highway section along the chinese border, a source said last friday. "the aim is to prevent people from fleeing the north," the source said. construction of the highway, which runs from hyesan, ryanggang province to musan, north hamgyong province, is nearly complete. the regime reportedly forced the residents out because the border regions along the apnok and duman rivers are notoriously porous, and defections and smuggling are rife. the source said the move has made it hard for people to flee via the established routes out of hyesan as well as musan and hoeryong, north hamgyong province, no matter how much money they pay. the regime promised the resettled people perks like extra food rations, but none have been forthcoming, the source added. tower defense games have been done in damn near every way possible: on consoles, mobile apps, and online flash-based games. however, there's a new kickstarter project, called doodle defense, that's putting a new spin on that simple gaming idea using some open source algorithms, a whiteboard, computer, kinect and a projector. the game works by projecting the battlefield and bad guys on the whiteboard, while users can draw in obstacles using a black marker and towers of varied attack abilities in red, green, and blue. kinect tracks where your drawings are onscreen, and reroutes the invaders accordingly, while also keeping track of how much ink you have left to use. check out the video after the break to see the game in action, and if you want to pitch in to the inventor port doodle defense to the ipad, hit the source link below. planning for retirement is a smart move for everyone, regardless of age. choosing a retirement plan is the first step toward readying yourself for retirement. some of the most common retirement plans include traditional iras, roth iras and 401ks. relying on social security payments or a pension, investing too aggressively or conservatively, and failing to plan for medical expenses and other costs of living are just a few of the retirement mistakes people make. but perhaps the biggest mistake is not saving enough early on. the earlier you start saving, the more money you will have to last you through your retirement years. as you put money toward your retirement reserve, refer to the detailed articles on gobankingrates. from paying off debt to choosing the best retirement plans, gobankingrates has the information that can help you work toward your financial goals and prepare for retirement. police in west bengal were left red-faced when a raid on a red light area in asansol discovered four constables along with a convicted murderer whom they were supposed to be guarding, according to a report. the four constables had been tasked with transporting the murderer from a jail in jharkhand to hospital for a check-up, but the policemen decided to make a 206-kilometre detour to visit the red-light area in neighbouring west bengal's asansol, the hindustan times reported. west bengal police rounded up the four as part of the raid although the murderer managed to escape - and then made his own way back to jail in koderma in jharkhand, the report said. "we have ordered a probe and suspended the four policemen until further notice," jharkhand director general of police dk pandey said. jharkhand, one of the country's poorest states which is grappling with naxalism, has seen several security lapses in recent years. marcus koh founded throwrevolution with the goal of revolutionizing modern yo-yo play and pushing the limits of throwers around the world. with their high-quality precision engineered yo-yos they are well on their way to achieving that goal! this is the full titanium lotus! the lotus was designed with aesthetics, elegance, and pure performance in mind. it looks, feels, and plays unlike any other yo-yo. the beautiful two-tone engraving contrasting with the raw titanium finish gives this yo-yo a really high end look. the rounded profile fits comfortably in the hand and right from the first throw you get the feeling that the lotus fully takes advantage of the titanium alloy it is machined from. the walls are machined thin with a pleasant combination of rim and center weight that feels pleasantly maneuverable, light, and stable in play. it has a powerful spin and feels right at home in any style. with a limited worldwide release and each one hand tested and assembled by world champion marcus koh, the lotus has a look, feel, and elegance that is truly one of a kind! choose a player to call the first round. the game has 26 rounds, and the first round uses the letter a. each round, the caller for the round chooses a noun of less than four syllables, preferably something concrete rather than abstract - unless the caller likes to get punched in the arm by increasingly inebriated friends. all players, including the caller, must then draw from the available pool of blocks and build something that is recognizable as the called noun. there is no hard and fast standard for recognizability; this kind of thing should be worked out by rough consensus amongst the players. the last player who successfully builds the call must take a drink. that player becomes the caller for the next round, which uses the next consecutive letter of the alphabet that the new caller can remember. this game has an elegant structure that tends to distribute the damage fairly well - the caller has a bit of a time advantage, considering how long it takes to think of something good. however, too much complexity will kill any drinking game, especially one that requires handling small objects, so lego marathon leaves plenty of room for the kind of spirited conversation that's comprised of the soul of great drinking establishments. users of all current versions of microsoft's internet explorer browser might be vulnerable to having their computers hijacked because of a serious security hole in the software that is still not fixed. the flaw lets criminals commandeer victims' machines merely by tricking them into visiting websites tainted with malicious programming code. as many as 10,000 sites have been compromised since last week to exploit the browser flaw, according to antivirus software maker trend micro. the sites are mostly chinese and have been serving up programs that steal passwords for computer games, which can be sold for money on the black market. however, the hole is such that it could be "adopted by more financially motivated criminals for more serious mayhem - that's a big fear right now," paul ferguson, a trend micro security researcher, said. media playback is not supported on this device pep guardiola: ten manchester facts for incoming man city boss pep guardiola will be manchester city manager next season even if the club do not qualify for the champions league. the bayern munich coach has signed a three-year contract to succeed manuel pellegrini this summer. sunday's defeat by manchester united has put city's top-four place in doubt, leading to discussion over whether guardiola has an escape clause. but bbc sport has learned no break clause exists, so the 45-year-old spaniard will join in july as planned. sunday's defeat means city are in the fourth and final champions league qualifying slot, a point above west ham and manchester united. all three teams have played 30 premier league games. former barcelona boss guardiola has never coached in the europa league. after blackberry announced it was finished building its own smartphones yesterday, many people were concerned it signaled the end of the company's iconic qwerty keyboards. but ceo john chen put those worries to bed, clarifying in an interview with bnn that the company would release another smartphone with a physical keyboard in the near future. although blackberry will continue to make smartphones with qwerty keyboards, it's possible it won't be the exact same keyboard you're used to. the company will have to maintain the style and build quality that everyone who enjoys blackberry's physical keyboards has grown accustomed to, without actually building or designing it. there's no timetable for a release of the next blackberry with a physical keyboard, but hopefully the company will take the time to make sure whoever is building the hardware does so correctly. the australian medical association has backed a call by a canberra gp to protect neighbours of public housing tenants from secondhand smoke. dr stephen moulding's call for action came after many patients at his narrabundah clinic, private and public residents, complained about the dangerous smoke from adjoining public tenants entering their homes. dr stephen moulding, a gp for 40 years, has many patients who complain about second-hand smoke from public housing tenants on small blocks. credit:jamila toderas "my view is not to be saying we've got to be banning smoking in public housing, but there must be some compromise where residents who have got objections can be protected and also children when they're involuntarily exposed," he said. one of his patients told fairfax media the doors and windows in her two-storey duplex, including to her 9-year-old son's bedroom, had to stay constantly closed due to a public tenant who smoked in the front yard less than two metres away. china will set up a bureau for real estate registration to facilitate property management reform, china's top land and resources regulator said on saturday. the establishment of the bureau is designed to improve unified system design for registration as china will spell out related regulations this year, xu deming, vice minister of land and resources said at a work-planning meeting. the unified system on real estate registration will include related regulations, registration and information service platforms, documents and survey standards. meanwhile, china will accelerate rural land property surveying and registration and promote stockholding system reform in the countryside, xu said. small cities and towns should highlight real estate registration in their organization and government function reform while big cities should enhance cooperation with related departments and share their experience, the vice minister added. real estate registration is an essential step if china is to levy property tax. youtube connect has much of the same functionality that you'd already find with periscope and facebook live, according to a source close to the matter. you can log into the app using your google or youtube account and immediately begin streaming from your mobile phone. there are chat and tagging features, and a "news feed" that features the latest clips from your friends or those that you've subscribed to on youtube. the report goes on to note that videos would be viewable either from the youtube connect app or on the youtube website via the streamer's channel. streamers will also reportedly have the option to archive previous broadcasts, allowing viewers to catch up with replays. it's worth noting that youtube has had the ability for creators to live stream video for a while, with its most recent move focusing on live gaming via the youtube gaming app. for android users, sony and samsung both offer options for live streaming direct to youtube through their camera apps as well. youtube connect, however, sounds like a fresh take on the spontaneous streaming that has gained popularity with the advent of periscope. calgary police are asking the public for help as they continue to search for three people wanted in connection with a stolen vehicle sting staged by officers earlier this year. operation incessant, which lasted for two weeks in january and february, focused on offenders who were stealing vehicles left running throughout the city. in march, police said the covert operation resulted in seven suspects being charged with 24 criminal charges. police are still looking for three suspects wanted on 28 warrants, including anastassios tasso siokas, 49, of calgary, who police said on tuesday is now wanted on 12 warrants. the warrants include obstruction of a peace officer, impersonation, driving while disqualified, possession of a stolen credit card, and two counts of possession of stolen property. siokas is white, five feet 10 inches, with a medium build, brown eyes and partially gray hair. the other suspects at large are ian edward morris, 27, and sage bryanna bartman, 21, whose warrants were issued in march. anyone with information is asked to contact police at 403-266-1234 or crime stoppers. a school in mississippi has called off the annual senior dance after a lesbian student demanded she be allowed to bring her girlfriend. the american civil liberties union had demanded that the itawamba county school district allow 18-year-old constance mcmillen to attend the prom with her date. a school board statement wednesday announced the district wouldn't host the april 2 prom at itawamba county agricultural high school. mcmillen wanted to escort her girlfriend, who is also a student. mcmillen also was denied permission to wear a tuxedo. a school district policy requires that dates be of the opposite sex. the district's statement never mentioned mcmillen's request. but officials said the change was made due to recent distractions. district officials say they hope private citizens will host a prom. electronics and intro to programming in one box! our discover electronics provides a foundation in prototyping electronics and gives you the basics you need to create circuits for your arduino microcontroller. online lessons move you easily from learning electronics to basic programming. the kit already comes with everything you need to learn electronics and now you can take it to the next level and use your computer to program your circuits. this is the next step in building your own gadgets, robots, drones, and toys. step-by-step instructions help you set up your arduino and walk you through the basics of computer programming. your discover electronics kit already comes with the parts you need to make many of the projects you find online. it is a great arduino starter kit and perfect for the beginner in electronics and arduino, and has all of the parts needed even for advanced users. it includes discover electronics v2, usb cable, an arduino rev 3 and arduino cheat sheet. we also posted several arduino projects on our learn website to get you up and running. the bundle comes with manual unlike other arduino starter packs. this is only available for a limited time so get yours soon here. a court in eastern china has imposed jail terms of up to six and a half years on three activists who were part of a civil rights movement that has urged government officials to publicly disclose their assets. the sentences, decried by the trio's supporters as excessive, reflect the increasingly hard line that china's communist party has taken against political dissent, no matter how peacefully expressed or loosely organised. party leaders have been wary of any independent social force with the potential to threaten the party's rule by mobilising groups of people and have sought to quash the loosely knit new citizens movement of which the three activists were members. a district court in the city of xinyu sentenced liu ping, a labour activist, and wei zhongping to six and a half years' imprisonment each, while another activist, li sihua, was given three years, said one of their lawyers, zhou ze. the activists were convicted of "creating a disturbance", a vaguely defined offence that has been increasingly used to lock up activists. liu and wei also were convicted on two other charges. liu's lawyer si weijiang said there was no legal basis for the convictions. "the evidence shows the three of them are clearly not guilty but the authorities were determined to convict them," si said. in liu and wei's cases their sentences were heavier than that which a beijing court imposed on the group's founder xu zhiyong, in january, which was four years in prison. the prosecutions have been part of an expansive crackdown since last spring on political expression that has seen the arrests and detentions of prominent activists, intellectuals, rights lawyers, bloggers and advocates for minority rights. "the signal they want to send is that all political dissidents, regardless of whether you are guilty or innocent, they will convict and sentence you," si said. as predicted, and generally expected, isil set fire to the mishraq chemical plant and sulphur mine 30 km south of mosul on thursday last week as they fled towards the city. to date, up to nine people have died and around 1,000 have been injured, including foreign journalists. the toxic cloud, which includes deadly sulphur dioxide and hydrogen sulphide, combined with residue from burning oil wells, is a potentially fatal cocktail for those caught in the open or without gas masks. it currently stretches 20-30 km to the south over sparsely populated ground, but if the wind changes to blow to the east, as it usually does at this time of year, there is a slim chance that the kurdish capital erbil, 60 km away, could come under threat. when looking at cooking pots and cooking pans, choosing the right size is an important consideration. smaller boiling pots allow you to create just enough food for a few people and are easy to pack and carry with you, even on extended hiking trips. on the other hand, if you're using your grill or smoker to prepare a backyard feast for the entire neighborhood, extended-capacity boiling pots help you prepare an enormous amount of food to help make sure that nobody goes home hungry. cast-iron cookware is another sturdy option that's great for outdoor use. versatile aluminum and stainless-steel pot kits aluminum pot kits are a great way to make sure you have the necessary accessories to prepare fried poultry or fish. look for a thermometer to help ensure that your turkey or duck is cooked to a safe temperature and ensure delectable results. when an extra flavor boost is needed, a marinade injector allows you to add just the right amount of enhancement to the meat. stainless-steel pot kits also often include a strainer or lifter to help you remove the food quickly and safely, with a minimum of splashing from the cooking oil. check out our selection of fryers to find even more ways to whip up a meal that will have everyone eagerly asking for seconds. let your tulpa edit the wonderland. they can change it and anything with it whenever they want, just as you can. if you want, you can create a place in your imagination, called a wonderland. this is a place where you can work on your tulpa, and this will be the place that your tulpa can live in. you can be there too, just imagine yourself there with your tulpa. you can do anything you like there, it's your own world. it can be very helpful because if you are in a busy place like in a crowd of people,or doing something like cycling somewhere, it can be difficult to visualize your tulpa anywhere, so they can rest in the wonderland until you are able to visualize them again. the pirates have announced that they've selected the contract of wilfredo boscan and optioned cory luebke to indianapolis. they've also reinstated starling marte from the paternity list and optioned alen hanson back to indianapolis, as expected. they also moved elias diaz to the 60-day dl to clear roster space for boscan. right after i got done writing boscan wasn't much of a candidate to improve the pirates' bullpen, here he is. luebke was terrible the other night while making his first appearance with the bucs since april, and it isn't a huge shock to see he'll be gone, but i'm still not sure boscan is much of a solution -- he has good control and has done a nice job the past two seasons at indianapolis, but he's never been much of a strikeout pitcher, or more generally shown he's more than a depth guy. maybe his stuff will play up in relief, which i assume is where the pirates will use him. it's perhaps worth noting, though, that luebke's stats at triple-a were significantly more interesting than boscan's, even if luebke was pitching in relief for indianapolis while boscan was starting. say this for boscan, though: he's due. the pirates promoted him three times last season but never used him, and he's still never appeared in the big leagues. this time, he'll probably actually get to pitch. valve boss gabe newell is being made a fellow of the british academy of film and television arts for his outstanding contribution to video games. the fellowship would be officially bestowed during the bafta video game awards on 5 march, the academy added. valve had helped to foster a vibrant game-playing community, creating influential titles such as half life, team fortress 2 and dota 2, it said. mr newell said it was an "honour" for himself and everyone at valve. he also praised uk players of valve games, the country's press that had supported the company and the work of uk "modders" such as garry newman. bafta video games committee chairman harvey elliott said mr newell's contribution to the games industry was "unique". rather than just make games, said mr elliott, valve also let players become creators by giving them access to tools that let them modify or "mod" the studio's creations. valve runs the online steam gaming service through which many players buy and manage their games. the company is also working on a steam "box" - a set-top device that will let people play games on a big-screen tv in their living room. other bafta fellows from the video games industry include peter molyneux, shigeru miyamoto and will wright. in 2012, markuss persson, also known as notch, who created minecraft, was honoured with a special award in recognition of the success of the block-building game. liam geddes is a producer from milton keynes who has released steadily since 2013 on imprints like mil, pathway tracks and love not money. here he inaugurates new imprint dailycid with newcomer from romania marius laurentiu. geddes' contributions are funky and functional such as on the sexy vocal house stomper "for the time it took" with its lo-slung bass and tough enough rhythms good to work any dancefloor, while "ceviche" is a smooth and loungey number reminiscent of early cassio. lauretniu provides us with the rolling and ethereal journey that is "black sea pink sky" that really does show us exactly why romanians indeed do it better; this production is up there with works by the likes of homeboys andrei ciubuc or even sepp's more introverted works. one of two brothers arrested in belgium in an anti-terror operation has been charged with attempting to commit "terrorist murder". prosecutors said the 33-year-old man, named as nourredine h, is also accused of being part of a terrorist group. he and his brother, named as hamza h, were arrested on friday after searches in the mons area and the city of liege. hamza h was released on saturday without charge. no weapons or explosives were found in the searches. prosecutors did not name the organisation nourredine h is accused of working for. belgium has been on high alert since 32 people died in bombings at brussels airport and a metro station in march. many more people were injured in the attacks, which were claimed by so-called islamic state. "based on provisional results from the investigation, it appears that there were plans to carry out attacks in belgium," the federal prosecutor's office said following the arrests. but the statement added that as yet no link had been found to the brussels bombings. security was boosted in the run-up to belgium's national holiday on 21 july, amid fears of something similar to the lorry attack in the french city of nice on 14 july, bastille day. democrats and progressives lately treat it as an article of faith that citizens united is a supreme court decision that wrecked the country like nothing since dred scott. tonight in her new hampshire concession speech, hillary clinton reminded every american paying attention exactly how important that decision was, when she had the chutzpah to say out loud that the real problem with that decision is that it did not permit the legal barring of a documentary critical of her, which she thinks should have been allowed to stand because the legal entity behind it was organized as a corporation. "in this campaign, you've heard a lot about washington and about wall street. now, senator sanders and i both want to get secret, unaccountable money out of politics, and let's remember, let's remember, citizens united, one of the worst supreme court decisions in our country's history, was actually a case about a right-wing attack on me and my campaign. a right-wing organization took aim at me and ended up damaging our entire democracy. so, yes, you're not going to find anybody more committed to aggressive campaign finance reform than me," clinton said tonight. this is a common theme for her, personalizing an allegedly destructive expansion of the first amendment and free political speech which is so bad because it harmed her. and it is what all the angry brouhaha about citizens united is about: politicians trying to limit the circumstances under which americans can band together in certain legal structures and say bad things about them. that is the principle that clinton and her fans cheer: that government should have more power to make it illegal to criticize politicians. it's a little weird and creepy, but then a lot about american politics today is. you already know that walt disney's sweet little dumbo character was relentlessly mocked and rejected for his unusually large ears. but did you know that his situation was really due to a mix up by the baby-delivery stork? you see, dumbo is actually supposed to be an african elephant. african elephants have ears that are at least double the size of asian elephant ears. take a look at the large ears of the african on the left, compared to the asian elephant on the right. besides the size difference, you can also notice how each elephant's left ear is somewhat shaped like the continent the elephant is from. the large ears look like africa, while the smaller ears are shaped like india. if you pay attention at the beginning of dumbo, you can see the stork flying over africa and mis-delivering little dumbo to the asian elephants working in the circus. so compared to them, his ears are enormous! i'm not a collector of disney films, but i do love the inspirational story of dumbo. the challenges and fears he had to overcome are something that anyone can relate to. it's not just a kid's movie. if you'd like to read an article it inspired me to write for open exchange magazine last winter, here's the archive link: the magic feather: believing you can succeed. there's also a new dvd edition being released this week called dumbo: big top edition. if you haven't seen it in awhile, give it another look. i think you'll find it quite moving. if you're at all like me, grab an extra box of tissues because it will probably make you a little teary-eyed, but in a way that feels good to the soul. many cats love olives because they contain compounds known as isoprenoids, which are chemically similar to the active ingredient in catnip. isoprenoids are primarily found in pimentos and different varieties of green olives, such as kalamatas. the isoprenoids found in olives are structurally similar to methylcyclopentane monoterpene nepetalactone, the active chemical in catnip. this chemical binds to receptors in a cat's vomeronasal organ, which is also where catnip takes effect. cats, along with most other animals aside from humans, primarily use the vomeronasal organ to sense pheromones. the pleasurable effect on the receptors accounts for many cats' love of both catnip and certain types of olives. normally reserved cats may demonstrate out-of-character behavior, such as screaming or begging, when confronted with olives; however, the pleasurable effects that stem from consuming olives may not affect all cats. cat behaviorist and television host jackson galaxy reports that consuming olives has no detrimental effect on cats though the food offers little nutritional value for felines. some owners report diarrhea in cats that frequently consume olives. although olives are an acceptable treat on occasion, pet radio host tracie hotchner suggests that a more enriching method of treating cats is to place freeze-dried protein treats inside a toy dispenser. attempting to free the treats provides productive environmental stimulation for cats. the us will begin flying its deadliest fighter plane, the f-22 raptor, out of northern australia next year, the most senior american commander in the pacific has revealed as he warned of a need to show strength to deter aggression in the region. during a visit to sydney on wednesday, the commander of the us pacific command, admiral harry harris, vowed the us would remain a major player in the region, saying its "enduring interests" would not "change on january 20th" - referring to the day of donald trump's inauguration as president. admiral harris revealed that he had signed a 2017 agreement for australia to host us military assets including the raptors, which are feared and revered as the best fighter planes in the world, and will send a strong signal about us military presence in the region. "i think that's positive," admiral harris told the lowy institute event. the last time we saw the sprinting "cheetah" robot, our fear for the future of humanity was soothed slightly by the knowledge that it remained tethered to the offboard hydraulic pumps it relied on for power. now, boston dynamics is taking the chains off of its world record holder and letting the next generation of sprinter run, called wildcat. as shown in the video after the break, it's already capable of bounding and galloping across flat terrain at speeds of up to 16mph. we don't know what kind of power wildcat is running on, but unless its energy drains faster than a sega game gear on christmas day, 1991, things are looking bleak. update: we checked with boston dynamics, and it confirmed the wildcat runs on a 2-stroke go-kart engine, directly coupled to a hydraulic pump. right now, it has a small fuel tank to keep the weight down, and is capable of running for about five minutes. two egyptians have been killed and two injured in an apparent attack on a coptic church building near the libyan city of misrata, officials say. a misrata city council official told the bbc that there had been an explosion at the building as the four victims were eating lunch there. it is not clear who was behind the blast in the small town of dafiniyah. there were conflicting reports as to whether it happened on saturday or sunday. the misrata council official told the bbc that home-made dynamite used for fishing was found on the site of the explosion. the egyptian government has requested more security at the church, egypt's mena news agency reported. "egypt is requesting an investigation into the circumstances of the operation and for those responsible to be put on trial," it quoted egyptian foreign minister mohammed kamel amr as saying. the church in dafiniyah, just outside misrata, is frequented by egyptians. libya has a small christian population composed mainly of foreigners. these include migrant workers from egypt, where coptic christians are the biggest religious minority. the libyan government has been struggling to impose its authority and provide security in the aftermath of the conflict that toppled muammar gaddafi last year. recently, there has been a series of attacks against diplomatic missions and aid agencies, including a deadly assault on the us embassy in the eastern city of benghazi in september. there have also been attacks in libya against sufi shrines and mosques that witnesses say were carried out by militant islamists. south sydney chief executive john lee has called for an urgent review of the nrl's new shoulder charge interpretation as rabbitohs hooker issac luke prepares to become a test case by contesting his charge at wednesday night's judiciary. luke, who will plead guilty to a separate dangerous-throw charge, faces a three-match ban if unsuccessful but would miss only friday night's clash with canterbury if he successfully challenges the grade-one shoulder charge for his collision with north queensland playmaker johnathan thurston last thursday night. souths five-eighth luke keary has also been ruled out of the match against the bulldogs after reluctantly pleading guilty to a grade-one shoulder charge on cowboys winger justin o'neill. the charges against the rabbitohs pair follow a two-match suspension imposed on manly prop willie mason last week after the nrl changed the wording of what constitutes a shoulder charge under the judiciary code following concerns that the match review committee did not have the grounds to charge sydney roosters forward kane evans. former ac milan assistant coach mauro tassotti has signed on to remain with the rossoneri as a scout after what looked like an exit from the club earlier this summer. the 55-year-old was part of a mass clear out at the milan club earlier this summer which saw coach filippo inzaghi handed his marching orders, but it now appears as though the rome native is set to continue his 35 year relationship with the club. premium sport report that tassotti has signed a two-year contract with the club that will see him become a scout. it is believed the italian will be tasked with observing milan players out on loan and assessing whether they are ready to play for the first team. tassotti originally joined milan in 1980 and has spent the last 35 years at the club as a player, youth team coach and most recently as an assistant coach. public health officials are advising people in eastern canada to consider avoiding romaine lettuce because of an e. coli outbreak that is linked to one death and 40 illnesses. quebec and newfoundland and labrador have each reported 13 cases, ontario has had 8, new brunswick five and nova scotia one. the public health agency of canada says the cases of e. coli 0157 seemed to be associated with the consumption of romaine lettuce. story continues below advertisement ten additional cases have been reported and the investigation into the outbreak is continuing. the outbreak investigation is continuing and the agency says the public health notice will be updated on a regular basis as the investigation evolves. those who became ill range between the ages of four and 80 and 70 per cent of those who became sick are female. that's john burke , the traveler," he condescended to explain. burke can't use anything except a gun; and you can't write with that. by the way," observed fisher, "when we were talking about burke and halkett, i said that a man couldn't very well write with a gun. there was edmund burke , one of the wisest men and greatest orators that ever the world produced. opinions which might have been received with doubt, if expressed only by a native american, were set down as true, beyond dispute, when they came from the lips of chatham, burke , barre, or fox" dollop wished to know what was; but there was a prevalent feeling in her audience that her opinion was a bulwark, and that if it were overthrown there would be no limits to the cutting-up of bodies, as had been well seen in burke and hare with their pitch-plaisters-- such a hanging business as that was not wanted in middlemarch! goby, who died apparently of a heart-disease not very clearly expressed in the symptoms, too daringly asked leave of her relatives to open the body, and thus gave an offence quickly spreading beyond parley street, where that lady had long resided on an income such as made this association of her body with the victims of burke and hare a flagrant insult to her memory. his house stood near-by, on a balcony of rolling land that overlooked the town of lyndon and far beyond, across evergreen forests to the massive bulk of burke mountain. harry burke started his free money movement sincerely enough; now he's sponging on a half-starved sister for endless brandies and sodas. the man who bore it skulked through the streets of edinburgh in disguise, while the mob that applauded at the execution of burke called loudly for the blood of his employer. parliamentary history has few better passages than the debate in which burke and fox separated in the house of commons; when fox urged on his old friend the claims of old friendship with such tenderness that the house was moved to tears. this survey is being conducted by dr alison bacon and dr clare walsh at plymouth university. we are interested in various aspects of personality and imagination. the survey involves completing a series of questionnaires by simply checking a box in response to each question. there are no right or wrong answers to any of the questions. we are interested in how people differ from one another, so please go with whatever response feels most appropriate for you personally and please be as honest as you can with your responses. please be aware that the entire survey will take about 20 minutes to complete. it's a bit repetitive but we need to ask lots of questions to try and ensure the validity of people's responses - so please just stick with it. please be assured that all your responses will be handled confidentially and your data is completely anonymous. all results will be reported as totals or averages and your individual data will not be identifiable in any way. you have the right to withdraw from the study at any point just by exiting the browser. please answer the following question to continue. a cameraman for russia's state-owned channel one television has been killed in ukraine's eastern donetsk region, the channel has said. anatoly klyan, 68, was shot in the stomach when his film crew came under fire overnight after they went to film near a pro-kiev military unit in the region, the channel said on its website on monday. the trip was organised by pro-russia rebels. the statement said the journalists were accompanying a group of soldiers' mothers who were being driven to the unit "to meet their sons and take them home". the bus carrying the mothers and the journalists withdrew after coming under fire as it approached the base. klyan died when a group of people came under further automatic rifle fire after leaving the bus, the channel said. russia has protested against the killings of its journalists, calling on kiev to stop operations in donetsk and the region of luhansk, where separatists have seized state buildings and weapons arsenals. on june 17, a russian correspondent and a sound engineer for state television were killed by mortar fire in clashes near luhansk. sporadic violence has continued in eastern ukraine despite a cease-fire declared by petro poroshenko, ukraine's president, on june 20 to allow for peace talks with the rebels. the ceasefire is due to expire on monday 1900gmt. in the eight-year interim since daft punk released their last studio album, quasi-anonymous edm producers have become a dime a dozen. in case you forgot about the duo who first made waves wearing robot uniforms and performing from inside a giant pyramid, daft punk have inked a deal with columbia records and are working with famed producer nile rodgers to put together a record for release as soon as this spring, claims the hollywood reporter. according to their report, daft punk may have recorded with "panda bear, nile rodgers, giorgio moroder, paul williams, and feist collaborator chilly gonzalez" for the album. update: uk's the guardian is backing up thr, being even more specific, claiming the album will be out in may. that's all we know right now, but we'll keep you posted as we learn more. let's hope for some festival appearances this summer! the israeli authorities are being urged to shut down the internet account of an activist based in the country who is accused of harassing french reporters. the activist, a frenchman called gregory chelli, says that the journalists have shown themselves to be pro-palestinian. on tuesday, the father of one reporter died of heart failure after being the victim of a hoax call from mr chelli. mr chelli strongly denied any responsibility for the death. mr chelli said in a tweet that the call was made five days before the death of the father of journalist benoit le corre. he said he was considering libel action against news organisations that made the allegations. image copyright epa image caption israel launched operation protective edge in gaza on 8 july with the stated aim of ending rocket fire - seven weeks later a peace deal was signed between the two sides mr le corre writes for the internet site rue89 and recently wrote a critical article about mr chelli, alleging that he had hacked into pro-palestinian websites during the israeli offensive in gaza this year. mr chelli - otherwise known as ulcan - is accused by french journalists of initiating a campaign of harassment in response. the bbc's hugh schofield in paris says that mr chelli allegedly called mr le corre's father pretending to be from the police and told him his son was dead. on another occasion he allegedly pretended that he was mr le corre's father and called the police to say that he had just murdered his wife and son. armed police came looking for bodies. three days afterwards, the father had a heart attack and died. rue89's editor said if he lived in france mr chelli's online activities would have been shut down weeks ago, but he's taking advantage of israel's refusal - so far - to respond to french judicial pressure. dockless bicycles are turning up across sydney and melbourne. a well-publicised few are vandalised and dumped. but the big problem isn't the proliferation of these red and yellow bicycles: it's the knee-jerk "lock-em-up" reaction from councils. some sydney councils have reacted to the mistreatment of share bikes by saying they want to confine them to dedicated parking spots and impose fines on operators, or calling for state government regulation - a "solution" that would defeat the purpose and destroy the usefulness of these bike-share networks. it's part of a culture of resistance to innovation in transport that has kept our cities choked by car dependency for decades. dockless bike share offers a radical freedom of mobility. when you're trying to move people away from dependency on owning a car, convenience is key. if you've ever ridden a bike right up to the door of your destination, you will understand the incomparable feeling this convenience brings. "stuff parking a car," you think. "this is the way to travel!" that's the kind of surprisingly different experience that can change travel habits. it can move people away from polluting, noisy, space-hogging cars in a way that riding from one bike docking station to another never can. look at melbourne's spectacularly unsuccessful bike share scheme for an example of what happens when you strip away from a bike one of the true joys of using it: the freedom to travel exactly where and when you want to. instead of trying to control and repress this free-floating, revolutionary and joyful way of getting around our city, by corralling the bikes into set parking areas, why don't councils work on creating the best possible conditions for it to work? the swedish public service broadcaster reports that the boy's mother decided to join the terror group in 2015, moving to syria with her children as a result. pictures on the woman's facebook page used in the svt report show her three-year-old son posing with guns. the family reportedly had several weapons at its home in syria, including kalashnikov rifles and grenades. and it was an accident with one such grenade at the family home that is believed to have killed the boy. his older sibling, who was in the vicinity, was injured by shrapnel when the weapon triggered. the boy's death would be the first known incident where a swedish child has died after its parents left the country to join isis, according to svt. sweden's foreign ministry could not confirm whether the child had died however. "the situation in syria means it is difficult to get this kind of information confirmed," foreign ministry press spokesperson veronica nordlund told svt. in april, sweden introduced new legislation designed to punish those who travel abroad to join a terrorist group. those convicted of travelling to another country to seek training or to commit a terrorist act can be handed a two-year sentence under the toughened laws. a police office has been killed and at least 35 people wounded by a car bomb outside a police base in the egyptian city of ismailiya, officials say. intense gunfire was reported near the base after the car blew up. ismailiya and nearby areas have seen regular attacks on security personnel by islamist militants. the military has been carrying out a wide-ranging operation against militants in the neighbouring sinai peninsula. the sinai has grown increasingly unstable in recent years, triggered by the fall of president hosni mubarak. his overthrow in february 2011 left the northern sinai vulnerable to groups of jihadists, some with links to the gaza strip. in september security forces launched an offensive against islamist militants in the sinai, but have suffered a spate of deadly bombings. in recent months some 100 members of the security forces have been killed. last month 11 soldiers were killed by a car bomb attack on a convoy of soldiers near the town of el-arish. from software's dark and macabre bloodborne clocks in at over 40 hours, according to an early review in the upcoming april issue of edge magazine. apparently, it took longer than that for the publication to complete a playthrough. evidently then, bloodborne is going to be an incredibly meaty game, especially once you take into account the game's myriad online features too, including co-op, pvp and the randomly generated chalice dungeons. you can read more details on that here. there's going to be plenty to do. the magazine also mentions being able to customise weapons using bloodgems, and as well as including a verdict on bloodborne, also features an interview with the game's director, hidetaka miyazaki. bloodborne is out exclusively for playstation 4 on 25th march in north america and 28th march in europe. fifteen muslim men have been arrested in india for allegedly shouting "anti-india and pro-pakistan" slogans during the champions trophy cricket final. the men were denied bail in madhya pradesh state after appearing in court where they were charged with sedition. they were arrested after their hindu neighbours complained that they had burst firecrackers and shouted "pro-pakistan" slogans during the game. pakistan won the final, defeating india by 180 runs. sedition is one of the most serious charges under the indian penal code. people charged with sedition have to surrender their passports, are not eligible for government jobs, must appear in court as and when required, and spend money on legal fees. the india today website quoted police as saying that the men were charged because of the anti-india slogans and not because they were cheering for pakistan. why india needs to get rid of its sedition law this is not the first time indian muslims have got into trouble for cheering for the pakistan cricket team. in 2014, 66 muslim students from indian-administered kashmir were kicked out of their university in the northern state of uttar pradesh and charged with disturbing communal harmony. and in 2016, police were sent into a university in indian-administered kashmir after clashes between students from the state and other parts of the country. the drone that reportedly hit a british airways jet earlier this week may have actually been a plastic bag, a minister has said. transport minister robert goodwill admitted authorities had not yet confirmed whether what struck the airbus a320 was a remote-controlled device. the collision on sunday night is believed to have been at around 1,700 ft near richmond park in south west london, over four times higher than the legal height limit. the air accidents investigation branch is investigating, alongside the metropolitan police. but following his comments today, mr goodwill also dismissed calls for tighter rules on drone use to protect against terror threats insisting current rules governing drone use were strong enough. he said it would be much easier for terrorists to attack airports on the ground with rucksacks or car bombs than orchestrate the attack from a drone aircraft. mr goodwill was also sceptical about calls to force all manufacturers to install gps coordinates that would prevent drones flying in restricted areas - known as "geo-fencing". he warned that any moves to enforce geo-fencing rules would be vulnerable to being hacked by "somebody who could get round that software". some of the world's biggest weapons manufacturers and arms dealers are among companies to have wined and dined defence executives and military officers, internal government records show. the records shine a light on the relationship between the defence industry's big hitters and the military, with more than 110 free dinners, lunches, theatre and football tickets given to the defence department's three-star personnel from a range of companies in the past three years. the recently retired head of the chief capability development group, vice-admiral matt tripovich, enjoyed more hospitality than any other senior official - accepting almost one-quarter of all such events taken up by senior levels of the australian defence establishment. admiral tripovich, responsible for securing cabinet approval to buy new multimillion-dollar weapon systems, benefited from 28 invitations to dinners, concerts, the theatre and rugby tests. lucknow: communal tension was reported in kanpur in uttar pradesh when some hindu groups took to the streets on saturday after some posters and banners of bhagwati jagran were found ripped off the walls in a locality. police said some posters of a jagran were found torn in babupurwa locality late friday night, triggering protests in many parts of the city on saturday. the agitated groups demanded the guilty should be booked. agitated people jammed the road where muslims' tazia procession was to be taken out. "some people were injured when stones were pelted and angry groups vandalised property. following this, district administration clamped prohibitory orders across the city and security was stepped up," a police official said. a home department official said the situation was tense but under control. the bjp state unit accused the samajwadi party-led uttar pradesh government of failing to maintain communal harmony. "this type of callousness has been the hallmark of the akhilesh yadav government over the past three years. they have not only publicly sided with one community but have also allowed small issues to spiral out of control into major flash points," bjp state spokesman vijay bahadur pathak said. meanwhile, security has been beefed up across the state following communal flash points in many parts of the state over the week. violence had erupted in banda, ambedkarnagar, kannauj and fatehpur following communal clashes. google has just released the official google calendar app on the play store, to the joy of, well, probably everyone who isn't using a nexus phone or a custom rom. this is the same app you'll find in stock android, packaged up and ready for individual consumption. this also means google will be able to update the calendar app directly from the play store, instead of in android releases as part of the google apps package. this includes all the features you'd expect, allowing you to set which calendars you want to view, create events, hide declined events, show the week number, decide the week start date, and more. for those stuck with oem calendar apps on skins like touchwiz and sense, this is definitely a welcome addition to the family of play store-available google apps. this version also adds a couple new features: head over to the play store to grab it now, and check out the official android blog post for more information. australia's electronic espionage agency sought the help of american spies to monitor the communications of australian citizens suspected of terrorist connections, according to a new book by american journalist glenn greenwald. drawing on documents provided by former united states intelligence contractor edward snowden, mr greenwald has revealed that in 2011 the top secret australian signals directorate "explicitly pleaded" with the us national security agency to "extend" their intelligence partnership and subject australian citizens to greater surveillance. journalist glenn greenwald's new book no place to hide reveals more about australia and its spying relationship with the us. credit:ap the newly released documents also show that the australian signals directorate and the national security agency worked together to collect intelligence resulting in the arrest of one of the terrorists responsible for the 2002 bali bombings. in a february 2011 letter reported in mr greenwald's newly published book, no place to hide, the acting director of the australian signals directorate, then known as the defence signals directorate, wrote to the national security agency seeking assistance to targeting the communications of "home grown" terrorists "active both abroad and within australia". get the top 100 trends happening right now -- plus a free copy of our award-winning book. our research methodology this article is one of 350,000 experiments. we use crowd filtering, big data and ai to identify insights. my rocking horse explores the toy's iconography - jul 5, 2011 references: references: industrialdesignserved equestrian rockers have been conceived and created in an infinite number of ways and are thus constantly being reimagined as well. my rocking horse by simon evrard is yet another attempt to explore the meaning of such an overused form, in a way that is both practical and beautiful. the designer wished to keep the iconic profile of the plaything, but to assemble it from separate components that may not individually mirror the symbolic shape. he started out with a system of layered parallel wooden panels that closely references the authentic form and materiality with a hint of contemporary creativity. what might however be the more compelling of the designs for my rocking horse by simon evrard is the one made of molded aluminum tubes. it takes on a wiry appearance that is utterly unrecognizable from the front. high-voltage dc power lines can efficiently transport electricity over thousands of kilometers and for long distances underwater, outperforming the ac lines that dominate transmission grids now. but for a century, ac prevailed because high-voltage dc could be used only for point-to-point transmission, not to form the integrated grid networks needed for a stable electricity system. the swiss conglomerate abb has solved the main technical hurdle to such grids. it has developed a practical high-voltage dc circuit breaker that disconnects parts of the grid that have a problem, allowing the rest to keep working. dc grids would be more efficient at connecting far-flung sources of renewable energy, allowing utilities to average out local variations in wind and solar power while bringing power to areas without much sunshine or wind. solar power from the sahara could power cloudy germany, and wind power from all over europe could keep the lights on at night. the result: more reliable renewable energy that can better compete with fossil fuels. a simulation center develops controls for dc grids. new research on how people select advisers finds that many people struggle to tell a good financial adviser from a bad one. they find it hard to tell good advice from bad advice when the issues are more complex. they also tend to stick with an adviser even when the quality of advice is not always good. the research by susan thorp, professor of finance and superannuation at the university of technology, sydney, and colleagues, throws light on how well individuals evaluate the quality of the advice they receive and why they stick with bad advisers. the results included people being ''extremely poor'' at distinguishing between real and bogus qualifications. new research throws light on how well individuals evaluate the quality of the advice they receive. the research underlines the importance of strong consumer protection and comes as the coalition government wants to roll back some of labor's future of financial advice reforms. the reforms resulted from a string of failures that cost retirees their life savings after advisers were influenced by commissions. the government says its proposed amendments are fine-tuning that will cut red tape and expenses for the firms that employ planners, and make advice cheaper for consumers. critics say the proposed amendments are more about the government placating the demands of the banks and insurers, to whom the majority of planners are aligned. they say the amendments will weaken consumer protections. the xbox one x is a 4k behemoth capable of running games at uhd resolutions with 60 frames per second and hdr. dozens of games are slated to receive free updates to take advantage of the x's significant 6tf power boost, and you can begin preparing for that eventuality today. in the fall 2017 update, regular xbox one consoles have gained the ability to download 4k assets early to help prepare for the transfer to the xbox one x, either via local storage or network transfer. naturally, the 4k assets won't make your games look better on your existing xbox one, you'll need the x for that. this just helps you get ready to make the move across. here's how to take advantage of the new 4k assets and check to see whether they have downloaded. gamebattles, the professional gaming platform supported by major league gaming, will be integrated in the upcoming call of duty: infinite warfare, as well as call of duty: modern warfare remastered, as stated in activision's q3 2016 earnings summary. players will be able to play in all sorts of tournaments held by the mlg with this in-game feature. gamebattles is a service offered by the mlg that includes over a hundred games to play. members can sign in for professional tournaments and earn cash by participating or winning. on launch day, it will run various tournaments for the playstation 4 versions of cod in europe and north america. for those interested, the entrance is free and the registration ends today. a video player will also be added to both infinite warfare and modern warfare remastered, due to the 50 million video views activision recorded on facebook regarding esports. players will be able to watch matches from the call of duty world league, as well as amateur competitions, all within the game. thomas randle made up ground on australian formula 4 leader jordan lloyd with a pair of wins on the streets of surfers paradise. he led the opening race from pole position, winning by four seconds from lloyd, who came through from fourth on the grid after a two-place grid penalty carried over from the previous round at sandown. lloyd made up his two places on an aggressive opening lap, passing tom grech off the start and then jimmy vernon further around the lap despite slight contact beforehand. randle was already over two seconds clear by the end of the first lap, and extended his margin over the remaining 14 tours. lloyd and vernon completed the podium with grech fourth in a change of chassis after damaging his own in a heavy crash in practice on friday. luis leeds overhauled harry hayek on lap 11 for fifth place, with will brown 12th. zane goddard, frankie maiolo and debutant jordan mcgregor rounded out the field. leeds started the reverse-grid second race from pole but was beaten off the line by a faster-starting grech from the outside of the front row. zane goddard triggered a safety car after lap two contact with the barriers, and at the restart leeds was demoted to third behind vernon. lloyd was also looking to pass leeds but made contact, damaging his front wing and then falling behind his rival randle. grech then slowed out of the lead on lap eight, promoting a battle between vernon, leeds and randle to one for first position. randle quickly got past leeds and eventually took the lead away from vernon a few laps later. leeds passed vernon for second by cutting the chicane, and as he attempted to move over to hand the place back, vernon fell to fourth behind lloyd too. brown held off hayek to take fifth, with maiolo and mcgregor completing the eight finishers. apple bloom and sweetie belle, from my little pony - friendship is magic. why is it that i'm only able to get about one proper drawing done each month? i really need to draw more stuff, more often. i also need to draw more monsters, even though they are really difficult to draw in color. this picture is essentially the newest addition to the "arcane" set of pictures, depicting the ponies in a darker, jrpg influenced continuity. there's no fanfic to depict the events of the story, but if there are going to be more of these pictures, i might combine them into an illustrated short story of sorts. as always, this was drawn with water soluble color pencils, and finished with white gel pen. credits for the ponies goes to lauren faust and hasbro. president of the seventh-day adventist church in jamaica, pastor everett brown, yesterday warned that his church will not protect anyone who has broken the law, following a report that one of his church elders was arrested for questioning in relation to the sexual assault of a minor. the elder, who attends a st mary church, was arrested on wednesday night by the centre for the investigation of sexual offences and child abuse after a report was made. "while we await the outcome of the investigations, we admonish our workers and members to live up to the high moral and ethical code of conduct for which our church is known and to cooperate with the authorities in bringing to justice those who have violated the laws of the land," the adventist president said in a release. pastor brown also condemned unlawful sex acts against children, adding that the church sympathised with the victims and their families who have been traumatised by abuse of any kind. "the seventh-day adventist church in jamaica is committed to upholding its high christians values and will not shelter any worker or member who runs afoul of the law," brown said. the report comes amid the sex scandal rocking the moravian church, of which three senior members are now before the court for the alleged sexual abuse of under-age girls. dr francesca stavrakopoulou refutes the traditional interpretation of the garden of eden, and visits the place she claims is the exact spot on which it stood. can we find the garden of eden? bible scholar dr francesca stavrakopoulou thinks so. in the final episode of her series re-examining conventional readings of the bible, she argues that the garden of eden has nothing to do with the origins of humanity, but is rather a story concealing dramatic events about a particular figure in a particular place, two and half thousand years ago. marshalling compelling evidence from archaeology, islam and the bible text itself, she identifies and visits the exact site of eden. it's a revolutionary theory which challenges some of the most cherished preconceptions about eden in both christianity and western culture. in just over a year, glenn beck's blinding burst of stardom has often seemed to overshadow the rest of fox news. and that may not be a good thing for the top-rated cable news channel, as many of its staffers are acutely aware. with his celebrity fueled by a time cover story, best-selling books, cheerleading role at protest rallies and steady stream of divisive remarks, beck is drawing big ratings. but there is a deep split within fox between those -- led by chairman roger ailes -- who are supportive, and many journalists who are worried about the prospect that beck is becoming the face of the network. by calling president obama a racist and branding progressivism a "cancer," beck has achieved a lightning-rod status that is unusual even for the network owned by rupert murdoch. and that, in turn, has complicated the channel's efforts to neutralize white house criticism that fox is not really a news organization. beck has become a constant topic of conversation among fox journalists, some of whom say they believe he uses distorted or inflammatory rhetoric that undermines their credibility. barbara callcott, who became an icon of australian pop culture as "mrs marsh'' in toothpaste tv commercials, died this morning. she starred in colgate's advertising for many years, starting from the late 1970s. ms callcott died peacefully in her home of many years at noosa on queensland's sunshine coast. "in honour of her legacy, colgate will be initiating an education grant in her name in recognition of her contribution to oral health education. colgate staff are saddened by the news and extend their condolences to barbara's family," chris pedersen, managing director, colgate, said this afternoon. he said ms callcott had continued to support the education of australian children on the benefits of good oral health habits 'off screen' right up until this month. arguably the most famous part of her tv ads was dipping chalk into a dye and cracking it in half to show how a toothpaste could help tooth enamel. the win ensured the brussels club ended the campaign two points clear of runners-up standard liege, who beat racing genk 1-0 at home, and three ahead of club bruges, and they qualify automatically for next season's champions league group stage. the title marks an unlikely turnaround by besnik hasi who took charge after coach john van den brom was fired in march following a ninth league defeat of the season. anderlecht finished the 30-game regular season in third place in the table, 10 points behind leaders standard and six adrift of club bruges. however, points totals are halved going into the play-offs - contested by the top six sides - and anderlecht won their last five matches to take the championship. runners-up standard go into next season's champions league third qualifying round while club bruges go into the europa league with zulte waregem and cup winners lokeren. anderlecht went ahead against lokeren when aleksandar mitrovic converted a pass by dennis praet in the 19th minute, but the hosts then lost keeper silvio proto after he suffered a hand injury. there was a brief moment of worry for anderlecht when defender anthony vanden borre was sent off for fouling lokeren's jordan remacle and hamdi harbaoui equalised from the penalty spot. but the tension was short-lived with lokeren also reduced to 10 men shortly after with koen persoons dismissed. anderlecht quickly restored their advantage before the hour with chancel mbemba netting and praet made the points safe with a third goal in the 67th minute. police in rio de janeiro said a russian diplomat trying to repel an attempted robbery thursday near the olympic park was involved in a shooting that left the assailant dead. the russian embassy denied any of its employees were involved in the incident. rio police said a russian vice-consul wrestled with a gunman who was trying to rob him, causing the weapon to go off and killing the criminal. in a statement to the associated press, the russians refuted the police report. "there must be a misunderstanding," the embassy said in an email late thursday. the russian government also said its representatives are not armed. it pointed out that consulate officials are "russian citizens with russian names," contrary to media reports that gave a brazilian-sounding name. authorities did not officially identify any of the people involved in the incident, and only said the man who was attacked was a lawyer and a vice-consul for russia. the o globo newspaper and other local media said the russian diplomat practiced jiu-jitsu. they reported that he was driving with his wife and daughter when he got stuck at a traffic jam on a main highway of barra da tijuca, home to the olympic park. two gunmen in motorcycles attacked, media said. the police only talked about the assailant, who was killed. "the vice-consul got into a physical confrontation with the aggressor, and during the fight, the assailant's gun was fired several times," said the police statement. the homicide unit opened an investigation. such street muggings are common in rio de janeiro streets, especially in areas with heavy traffic, where motorcycles can drive in between lanes, attack motorists and escape easily. chess is an exciting game of strategy and tactics, which children enjoy and can learn at their own pace. it contains elements from art, science, math, and sports and has been proven to be a valuable tool for improving social skills, thinking, and decision making, as well as patience and focus. at cgps, we include chess as part of our regular curriculum and invite everyone in our community to be a part of the team. chess is first introduced in kindergarten through huge outdoor pieces and an extra-large board where we show short illustrative games and teach the language skills needed for children to express their ideas. in first grade, students then learn the written skills needed to record their moves. these are later discussed as a way to gain insight into their own thinking and decision-making as chess problems become increasingly more complex. beyond the classroom, every school day starts with sunrise chess where students from all grades, along with their parents, are invited to come on a voluntary basis for guided play and fun. after-school chess is also offered twice a week for everyone and on fridays for those who enjoy tournament play. a northern kentucky social worker is facing possible termination by her employer after she says she helped a neglected and abused 7-year-old girl. the courier-journal reports that boone county social worker karey cooper could be punished by the state cabinet for health and family services for assisting the girl because another worker had already closed the cabinet's case on the girl's family. cooper says she did not know about the girl's closed file when she saw the girl at school looking hungry and unkempt. for the past six weeks, cooper has been removed from her field duties and assigned to type case notes while her supervisors consider what action to take. cabinet officials declined to comment on cooper's situation, saying they don't comment on pending personnel actions. pittsburgh -- the philadelphia eagles are the most dangerous team in the league -- in pregame warmups. editor's picks eagles' defense continues takeaway game against steelers the eagles forced four turnovers, all in the first half, as jim schwartz's defense continued to click in a 17-0 preseason win over the steelers. eagles capitalize on steelers turnovers in win pittsburgh steelers quarterback landry jones threw four interceptions and the philadelphia eagles capitalized. 1 related eagles kicker caleb sturgis will miss thursday night's game against the pittsburgh steelers with a concussion after a pregame punt hit him in the head. sturgis, who's competing with cody parkey for philly's top kicking job, did not have his helmet on when the punt struck him. sturgis is in his second season with the eagles after spending two years with the miami dolphins. sturgis is 73-of-93 for his career, including 18-of-22 last season. a romanian dentist standing in thursday's european elections said nigel farage should be prosecuted for comments about his fellow countrymen. tommy tomescu said he decided to run to be a mep for the europeans party in the london constituency, because of attacks on romanians, poles, bulgarians, slovaks and other eastern and central europeans. he criticised the ukip leader, and also the tories and labour, for comments on immigration, and reckoned that "xenophobic people are becoming more and more bold". mr tomescu spoke to adam fleming on the daily politics, along with former ukip mep nikki sinclaire, who is standing for the we demand a referendum now party. and mr tomescu said the ukip leader "doesn't have to be above the law simply because other parties are afraid they will lose votes". mr farage has previously defended his comments about people being concerned about a group of romanian men moving next door. passengers should be able to pay bus drivers a ''premium'' fare to prevent increasing numbers of travellers from being turned away from sydney's prepay services, a transport lobby group says. the call to allow casual bus users to pay for tickets bought from drivers on prepay routes comes as state transit expands the service into the inner west tomorrow. bus stops will go cashless - passengers have to buy tickets from participating retailers before they board - on weekdays between 7am and 7pm along broadway and city road as well as sections of king street, enmore road, parramatta road, norton street and glebe point road. but action for public transport secretary allan miles said catching a bus in sydney was becoming too complex. one-off bus travellers were confused about what services were prepaid and were being turned away by drivers who would not accept their money. and many convenience stores and newsagents complain they quickly run out of prepay tickets, adding to traveller frustration. development on this project has been taken over by epicsquid. for progress updates check out our discord here or follow my twitter here. embers is best described as a dwarven magic mod. it features a smattering of magical and technical content, from staples such as ore doubling and item transport to alchemy and magical ray guns. all centered around the core mechanic of ember, a limited form of power that you must extract from the world's core near bedrock. to get started, you will first need to find an ancient golem: slay the golem, and use his drops to craft the ancient codex. this will guide you through the rest of the mod. if you have any other questions, ask them in our discord here. follow epicsquid here for frequent progress updates! spotlights: the officially-recommended spotlights for embers are from mischief of mice on youtube. check out the rest of their channel! tds and senators from co roscommon, who today met with department of justice to discuss controversial proposals to house 80 refugees of syrian origin in a disused hotel in the county, have called for the appointment of a full-time child psychologist for the county. tds eugene murphy and michael fitzmaurice and senators maura hopkins, frank feighan and john o'mahony met with minister of state at the department of justice david stanton and his officials in leinster house. mr murphy said the position of child psychologist had been vacant in roscommon for some time and would need to be filled before any of the children who had been through the trauma of the syrian conflict actually came to live here. it was confirmed to the oireachtas members that 36 children under the age of 13 would be coming to live in the hotel in ballaghaderreen in march. thirteen of the children will be under 4 years of age, 19 of them will between the age of 5 and 12 and four of the children will be 13 years old. the oireachtas members told mr stanton that the department needed to open lines of communication with the local community. mr stanton confirmed that a contract has been signed with the owners of the hotel and that a new national community fund would be set up to allow local community groups to get involved in integration projects. senator maura hopkins said she had been assured department of justice officials would be calling to the hotel every week to see how the services for the refugees are working out and if and when changes needed to be made. olivia colman and channel 4's recently axed drama utopia are in the running for international emmy awards. colman has been nominated for best actress for broadchurch while utopia has been shortlisted for best drama series. british game of thrones actor stephen dillane has been nominated for best actor for the tunnel, the english language remake of scandinavian thriller the bridge. the awards will be held on 24 november. doctor who nomination the tunnel, a co-production in the english and french languages and co-starring harry potter actress clemence poesy, is also in the running against utopia in the drama category. channel 4 announced last week that the violent thriller was not being renewed for a third series. its documentary series educating yorkshire has been nominated in the non-scripted entertainment shortlist where it is up against master chef china. no fire zone: the killing fields of sri lanka has landed another nod for both channel 4 and itn for best documentary. the bbc's doctor who drama, an adventure in space and time, starring david bradley as the first doctor william hartnell is up for best tv movie. a full list of nominations are at the international emmys website. boris johnson's visit to moscow descended into a slanging match as the russians accused him of "making up" allegations of brexit meddling in an ugly public disagreement. mr johnson's trip to moscow, the first undertaken by a uk foreign secretary in five years, was aimed at breaking the deadlock between the two nations. but the foreign secretary and his counterpart traded blows over allegations of russian hacking in british elections as mr johnson became the first to officially call the nation out on its actions. the extraordinary exchanges, which played out in front of journalists and diplomats, saw the two men accuse each other of being dishonest as mr lavrov claimed there had been no attempts to derail the british democratic process via cyber hacking. interrupting, mr johnson rejected the claim, stating instead that none of the attempts had been successful and pointedly referring to widespread russian interference in elections around the world. the city of lubbock has announced that another new case of west nile virus has been identified. the person that contracted the case of neuroinvasive west nile virus is described as a female over the age of 50, who did travel outside of lubbock county in the two weeks prior to the onset of illness, according to the city. neuroinvasive west nile virus is the most serious type of the disease, and the lesser form is west nile fever. the virus poses a threat to humans, birds, horses, mosquitoes, and some other animals as well, according to the centers for disease control. symptoms of the neuroinvasive form of west nile virus include headache, neck stiffness, high fever, disorientation, muscle weakness, and convulsions. a total of four cases of neuroinvasive west nile virus have been confirmed in the city of lubbock this year. there is now a total of 8 reported cases in lubbock county, an increase of five over the past week. the cdc has more information on the virus here. in april 2015, i went to the annual conference of the american association of geographers, which this year was held in chicago, illinois. seeing as i was flying almost 4000 miles, i also took some time to look around the city. there are plenty of protest stickers to be found in chicago, just like in new york and london. as in other cities, protest stickers in chicago give us a clue as to what social movements and subversive political campaigns are striking a chord in the city. these movements reflect multiple scales, from the local to the international. below are some of my favourite pictures from the windy city. special thanks to llinos brown, who put up with my odd habit of taking close-up pictures of random bits of street furniture and also helped me find a few stickers whilst we were in chicago. beijing: north koreans had long known jang song-thaek as the number two figure in their country, the revered uncle and mentor of kim jong-un, the paramount leader. then on monday state-run television showed two green-uniformed guards clutching a glum-looking mr jang by the armpits and pulling him from a meeting of the ruling party after he was denounced for faction-building, womanising, gambling and other acts as dozens of former comrades watched. the spectacle of mr jang's humiliating dismissal and arrest - his image was also purged from government publications and propaganda programs - was a highly unusual glimpse of a power struggle unfolding inside the nuclear-armed country. but the major impact may be outside, and nowhere is the downfall more unnerving than in china. removed: jang song-thaek is dragged out of his chair during a meeting in pyongyang. north korea's longtime protector and economic lifeline, china has considered strategically close relations with north korea a pillar of foreign policy and a bulwark against the us military presence in south korea. despite chinese irritation with north korea's nuclear tests and other bellicose behaviour, china had built a good relationship with mr jang as the trusted adult who would monitor kim, who is less than half his age. any shift by china concerning north korea has the potential to significantly alter the political equilibrium in asia, where the divided korean peninsula has been a fact of life for more than 60 years. while there is no indication that the chinese intend to change their view, it seemed clear that even beijing's top leaders were surprised by mr jang's abrupt downfall on sunday, and even more by the north korean state television broadcast on monday. virtual reality is a technology that has to be experienced. it's hard to explain to someone that you can put on a headset, look around and enjoy the illusion of being somewhere else. this advertisement for samsung's gear vr tries to show off the experience using a few neat tricks, but mostly serves as an example of how hard it will be to get your average consumer interested in vr. gear vr is a great piece of technology that still needs a bit of work before it's ready for the mainstream, and the advertising can be described in the same way. we see no games here, and it's hard to get across the feeling of flying over a city when you're showing someone sitting down and reacting to what seems to be a giant spherical screen. this is an interesting way of trying to get across how it feels to be in virtual reality, but it mostly comes off as goofy and a bit forced. i was friends with the climber and the accident was a fatality. i was not there but from what i understand she was on the first pitch of the yellow wall. she had followed the route last week without any issue and wanted to lead it this week. she was about 20 feet up and did not have any gear in yet when her foot slipped. she hit the ground and her partner immediately went over to her. as far as i know she never regained consciousness. those are all the details about the accident that i know. please refrain from second guessing or making any she should have done this or should have done that comments. she was a vibrant and kind person who had a deep passion for climbing. she was from chile and had done a lot of climbing at cochamo in patagonia. she had been to many areas in the us to pursue her climbing and most recently was out in denver. she will be missed by many people. may she rest in peace and my deepest sympathies to her family in chile. the un high commissioner for human rights has raised concerns over the plight of religious minorities in indonesia. navi pillay has called upon indonesia to take firm action against attacks on religious minorities. she met representatives of the christian, ahmadiyya and shia communities in a visit to the country earlier in the month. in a report by barnabas fund, pillay said she was "distressed" to hear from the groups that they were suffering violent attacks and forced displacement, as well as other forms of discrimination such as being denied identification cards. "i was also concerned to hear that the police have been failing to provide adequate protection in these cases," she said. pillay raised particular concern about the "arbitrary and discriminatory" enforcement of sharia law in aceh, where some people are being punished by stoning or caning. there have been reports from christians in indonesia of forced church closures, even where the churches have secured legal permission. the gki yasmin church in bogor and hkbp filadelfia church in bekasi were both closed by the local mayor amid pressure from extremists, despite the courts ruling that the churches should remain open. both congregations have resorted to meeting in the open air, but even these outdoor services have been the victim of harassment by local muslims. barnabas fund reports that on one occasion, an islamist mob threw bags of urine, sewage, oil, rotten eggs and stones at the filadelfia congregation. pillay said that raids on places where people gather were "creating an environment of intimidation and fear". she urged the indonesian government to take action against "narrow and extremist interpretations of islam" and make sure that the international human rights treaties it has signed are reflected in domestic law. the european union has lifted some more of its sanctions against top officials and institutions in zimbabwe. an eu diplomat said the bloc was ending measures against 20 entities and 51 people - including the justice and foreign ministers. however restrictions on president robert mugabe continue. the eu lifted 35 sanctions last year, noting the power-sharing government was making "significant progress" in addressing its economic crisis. mr mugabe and more than 100 key members of his inner circle remain the subject of restrictions, which include asset freezes and bans on travelling to european countries. 'keep sanctions' plea bbc southern africa correspondent karen allen says the eu remains concerned that pledges made after violent elections in 2008, including promises to reform the police and security services, are not being honoured. the eu diplomat said the travel bans on justice minister patrick chinamasa and foreign minister simbarashe mumbengegwi were lifted so they could visit brussels for talks, but their assets remain frozen. the us-based campaign group human rights watch earlier called on the eu not to lift its sanctions. hrw said arrests of peaceful anti-government campaigners were continuing and lifting the sanctions would send the wrong message to the government. the contemporary harkavy residence was designed by us architect robert gurney and is located in potomac, maryland, usa. found on homedsgn, the residence stretches over an area of 2,900 square feet and is oriented towards the forest. here is a short description from the architects. the sequence of entry is defined by a series of walls, intended to privatize and delineate the approach and entry into the house. the walls, garage volume and house become a threshold between the road and the wooded parkland. the house is composed of three volumes articulated with varying roof forms. a two-story wood volume anchors the composition. a butterfly-shaped roof is employed to open views southward and sloped to funnel rainwater into a collection system. with simple forms rendered in sensory materials, the house becomes a small part of the larger landscape, providing a place to witness trees changing colors, fog rolling in from the not too distant potomac river and deer herds wandering to the edge of the woods. freshome readers, would you like to see more nature-connected architecture projects on freshome? let me start by saying that i am not a big fan of shooter games. but this game is something more than that. naughty dog has made games that set the bar for other developers. with the release of uncharted 3, i did not think that naughty dog could do anything else that would be more impressive. but then they released the last of us. i had played this game originally on the ps3, and absolutely loved the idea. and now, with a remastered release on the ps4, i had to get the game to try it out. the game is set in a post apocalyptic world. it has been 20 years since the outbreak of a deadly fungus that has killed off or turned most of humanity. the remaining survivors have been gathered up into militarized safe zones where they can remain safe. the main protagonist of the game, joel, is tasked with smuggling a girl out of the city. the game follows the two as they make their journey. the people they encounter on the way are interesting and make an impression on the player more so than any other game i have played before. the two main characters build a strong father-daughter relationship that stays on the player's mind long after the game is over. this remastered version is even more exciting because it comes with the left behind dlc of the game. there have been very few games in my mind that have offered dlc that was actually worth buying. left behind offers a beautiful story of ellie's life before she met joel. the dlc also introduces a few other tactics to be used in the game that were not present in the original game. overall, i think this remastered version of the game is certainly worth buying, even if you have played the game before. the tennessee titans have agreed to terms with free-agent safety rashad johnson, the team announced on friday. nfl network's rand getlin reported the deal is a one-year contract. johnson played the last seven seasons with the arizona cardinals and started all 30 games he was active for in the past two years. the 30-year-old recorded 61 tackles, seven pass deflections, and five interceptions in 14 games through the 2015 season. the veteran defensive back has also been known for his leadership and was named team captain twice in college at alabama. the titans let free safety michael griffin walk in free agency, leaving a hole in the starting defence beside strong safety da'norris searcy for johnson to fill. johnson joins cornerbacks brice mccain and antwon blake as new members of the titans' secondary. the mother of mark duggan, whose death sparked nationwide riots after he was shot by a police marksman, has lost a high court bid to overturn a finding that her son was "lawfully killed". pamela duggan, and other family members and supporters, reacted with shock and anger after the inquest jury returned its majority verdict on the 29-year-old in january. but three judges have rejected ms duggan's accusation that coroner judge keith cutler misdirected the jury and dismissed her application for judicial review. ms duggan said later she was "extremely disappointed" and remained "deeply distressed" about the circumstances of her son's death. her solicitor marcia willis stewart said ms duggan, who was not at london's high court for the ruling, had asked her to say that she was lodging an appeal. as the children grew, the researchers did many evaluations to tease out environmental factors that could be affecting their development. on the upside, they found that children being raised in a nurturing home - measured by such factors as caregiver warmth and affection and language stimulation - were doing better than kids in a less nurturing home. on the downside, they found that 81 percent of the children had seen someone arrested; 74 percent had heard gunshots; 35 percent had seen someone get shot; and 19 percent had seen a dead body outside - and the kids were only 7 years old at the time. those children who reported a high exposure to violence were likelier to show signs of depression and anxiety and to have lower self-esteem. a cyber attack has left tens of thousands of post office and talk talk broadband customers without internet this week. the assault, which uses the same malicious software that took some of world's most popular websites offline in october, has been ongoing since sunday and intermittently affected the customers' ability to connect to the internet, the companies said. the post office said around 100,000 of its customers had been affected since sunday. talk talk meanwhile did not say how many of its broadband subscribers were hit, but confirmed that a minority were affected on thursday. both companies are working on a fix. as well as talk talk and the post office the attack hit hull's internet provider kcom, and left 900,000 of germany's deutsche telekom customers unable to connect to the internet earlier this week. the second dlc character for mortal kombat, kenshi, has been available on xbl marketplace and psn for a few days now and we are starting to see more awesome combo videos. the two videos we have for you here, by medina4life, really stand out to me. the first video shows several different combos, with notation so that you can try them on your own. some combos are even slowed down so you can see what is going on. the second video is just as interesting if you are new to the character or just curious. it features audio commentary, again by medina4life, giving his opinions about the pros and cons of the character. it's really good stuff, so it's worth checking out for sure. thanks to test your might for the tip on these videos! a conservative iranian newspaper says the country's main opposition leader must be tried for inciting unrest after june's disputed presidential elections. in an editorial, the kayhan daily said mir hossein mousavi was a us agent and should be charged with "treason". street protests after the poll - which mr mousavi says was rigged - have revealed a rift in iran's leadership. separately, a uk embassy worker detained in tehran has been charged over the protests, a report says. the british foreign office says it is investigating the report, by the guardian newspaper, that the embassy's chief political analyst had been accused of "acting against national security". 'horrendous crimes' kayhan accused mr mousavi of "killing innocent people, inciting riots, hiring thugs to assault people, evident co-operation with foreigners and playing the part of us fifth column". the newspaper, whose editor is appointed by iran's supreme leader ayatollah ali khamenei, said there were "undeniable documents" proving that mr mousavi had links with foreign countries. it also accused former reformist president mohammad khatami of playing a key part in the unrest. "mousavi and khatami should account for these horrendous crimes and evident treason in an open tribunal". earlier this week, iran's pro-government militia, the basij, called for mr mousavi to be prosecuted. mr mousavi has made no public comments about the accusations. the elections, held on 12 june, returned president ahmadinejad to power for a second term in office. but the opposition disputes the result, saying the vote was rigged. both mr mousavi, and another defeated opposition candidate mehdi karoubi, have issued statements on their websites describing any government led by president ahmadinejad as "illegitimate". there is strong evidence that a policewoman who shot a mentally disturbed man in the back in 2009 accidentally used her gun instead of her taser, a coroner has found. adam salter was shot and killed in the kitchen of his lakemba home in november 2009 after police responded to a call that the 36-year-old was stabbing himself with a knife. shooting victim adam salter with his sister zarin. the shooter, sergeant sheree bissett, and nsw police claimed that mr salter was threatening another officer with a knife and that lethal force was her only option. but the inquest into mr salter's death learnt that sergeant bissett shouted "taser, taser, taser" before firing her gun, and deputy state coroner scott mitchell has found that it was more than likely sergeant bissett had made a terrible mistake. a fuel tanker that disappeared from a malaysian port was likely taken by its own crew in a dispute with their employer, indonesian authorities have said. the vier harmoni, which is carrying 900,000 litres of diesel, sailed into indonesian waters on wednesday after it dropped out of contact on tuesday evening. malaysian and indonesian maritime authorities are still searching for the vessel but ruled out a hijacking, which was earlier reported by several news agencies. the captain of the vessel twice informed his employer that he was taking the ship back to the indonesian island of batam because of an "internal management problem", the afp news agency reported later on wednesday. al jazeera's step vaessen, reporting from the indonesian capital jakarta, said the tanker was near batam and the crew were believed to have "no intention of selling the oil". "malaysian and indonesian authorities are not calling this a hijacking, or an act of piracy; they're calling this an internal dispute," she said. for years, gangs of armed thieves have targeted small tankers operating off southeast asian coasts, looking for marine diesel and oil to steal and then sell. "the indonesian crew on the indonesian boat took the tanker - full of oil - back to indonesia after not being paid for well over a month. it was a malaysian company that chartered the boat but it's a dispute between the indonesian owner and the indonesian crew," our correspondent said. the ship had sailed from the tanjung pelepas port, in malaysia, on monday. in june last year, pirates hijacked the orkim victory, a malaysian tanker, and pumped the oil from it into another tanker before releasing it. heavily in contention to double its afl premiership tally this season, port adelaide will lobby the league to incorporate 34 of its sanfl flags into a revised premierships table. fairfax media revealed last week that the afl is strongly considering a series of recommendations which if accepted will backdate the competition's official history to 1870, the year in which melbourne claimed the game's first recorded premiership. the port adelaide magpies celebrate their 1996 sanfl premiership win credit:peter mathew such a move would catapult carlton to the top of the overall premiership tally with 22, and would see geelong awarded an additional seven flags. but port adelaide ceo keith thomas has argued that if such amendments are made, then his club's 34 state league premierships won prior to its 1997 entry into the afl should also be included. pm manmohan singh on saturday said the upa government's policies for rapid growth are showing results and the country has seen a record average economic growth in the last nine years. upa policies and programmes for rapid and inclusive growth are showing good results. we have seen a record average rate of economic growth in the last nine years, which is higher than what india achieved in any other decade so far, singh said at an election rally here. he added that during upa rule since 2004, poverty has come down at thrice the rate achieved during the preceding decade. consumption in rural areas has increased more rapidly than before. people are living healthier lives and their average lifespan has increased by five years in the last decade, he explained. he said the government has taken steps to ensure transparency and curb graft. a number of steps have been taken for improving governance, curbing corruption and enhancing transparency and accountability in the work of public authorities. he highlighted the right to education, food security bill and nrega as the upas landmark achievements. on steps for development of tribals, singh said: we have enacted a legislation to give ownership rights to our tribal brothers and sisters over land on which they have been living for centuries. "to be honest, i think of putin as a person who was sent to russia by fate and the almighty at a difficult hour," vladislav surkov, the first deputy administration chief, said on chechen television, according to the interfax news agency. mr surkov serves in the administration of president dmitry medvedev. but he has worked there since just before mr putin first entered the kremlin for a two-year term as president in 2000 and is widely seen as one of his closest allies. mr putin now serves as prime minister and neither he nor mr medvedev have said which of them will run in presidential elections scheduled for march. but mr putin has remained the country's most popular politician and has been forced to deal with at times peculiar signs of appreciations from his fans and political supporters. the russian media in may reported that a small female sect believes mr putin is the reincarnation of paul the apostle. a syrian army general has reportedly defected to the opposition, saying that morale in the army had collapsed. a man identified by opposition activists as general mohammed ezz al-din khalouf announced his defection in a video shown on al-arabiya tv. he is said to have reached safety in neighbouring jordan. there was no comment from the syrian government. new york-based group human rights watch has again accused the government of using cluster bombs against civilians. an estimated 70,000 people have been killed and one million have fled syria since the uprising against president bashar al-assad began two years ago. video appearance gen khalouf, identified variously as a brigadier-general and a major-general, was shown sitting beside his son, said to be an army captain. "it is not possible for anyone to accept any of the ideas of this regime unless they have achieved special interests," he said. seif al-hourani, an activist from a rebel group which reportedly helped the man and his family out of the country, told ap news agency via skype that the escape had been planned for months. six days ago, rebels smuggled the general, his wife, and three of their children out of damascus and they crossed into jordan on friday, he said. correspondents say that, if confirmed, it would be one of the most senior defections since the start of the conflict. cluster bombs open in flight, scattering smaller bomblets. they pose a threat to civilians long after they are dropped as many do not explode immediately. most countries have banned their use. "syria is expanding its relentless use of cluster munitions, a banned weapon, and civilians are paying the price with their lives and limbs," human rights watch said in a report, which documented 150 attacks over six months. in october, the syrian army denied it was using cluster bombs in its battle with rebels. the nrl has floated the prospect of introducing a third on-field referee in 2016 as part of a sweeping series of mooted changes hailed as the biggest to the game since the introduction of the video referee. the governing body has engaged former australian cricket coach john buchanan and league immortal bob fulton to oversee a full review of the refereeing ranks. part of their feasibility study will be aimed at trialling a video referee bunker by the middle of next season to improve the consistency of decision making. the so-called "central command centre", which would be situated in an off-site location, would follow the lead from the nhl and the nba, which have already embraced the technology. set to cost the game millions of dollars, it's hoped the innovation will lead to the match review committee laying charges in real time, meaning coaches could have a charge sheet in front of them by the time they get to the post-game press conference. "a coach could one day sit through a press conference and take the early guilty plea on a grade one if he deemed that was the appropriate decision," said nrl head of football todd greenberg, who added the change could realistically be made in time for the 2016 system. fall river -- it's not unusual for customers at a pet store to debate the right way to care for a lizard or snake. but fall river police said an argument at jurassic jungle on the topic of "proper reptile care" escalated to a brawl that resulted in two arrests and three people being hospitalized. the herald news reported that brothers james dugan-weeks, 27, and allen weeks, 30, pleaded not guilty in fall river district court monday to charges of kidnapping, assault and battery with a dangerous weapon, assault and battery, and in dugan-weeks' case, strangulation. the herald news reported that one alleged victim told police that weeks and dugan-weeks, who was a volunteer at jurassic jungle, had been drinking, smoking pot and disturbing customers at the store early saturday morning. the man told police that he began arguing with dugan-weeks over reptile care. dugan-weeks choked him against a wall and weeks got involved, the herald news reported. after two people entered the store and tried to intervene, the newspaper reported, the brothers locked the door so no one could leave and assaulted all three people, including punching and kicking them. eventually, the door was unlocked and the altercation continued outside the store, police wrote in court documents. the brothers allegedly fled and were arrested later saturday. rene brown, an attorney for weeks, wrote in court documents that her client had a different version of events supported by surveillance footage. she said he had been hit in the head with a brick, and had to be treated at an emergency room, the herald news reported. hearings on whether the two men are too dangerous to be released will be held thursday, according to the newspaper. canberra could be producing its first legal cannabis plants within months after the act government praised the federal government for filling the missing link in providing medicinal cannabis. greens minister shane rattenbury said he would introduce legislation to establish an act scheme for the cultivation and supply of medicinal cannabis after federal health minister sussan ley announced on friday she was finalising changes to the narcotics drugs act. ms ley said the government's planned changes would allow the department of health to licence growers under a new scheme, with obligations and legal requirements for states and territories. mr rattenbury, whose draft legislation led to an assembly review of the issue released this year, said it was a significant move forward and highlighted how fast community opinions had changed on the issue. "federal laws have always prevented the act from setting up a formal model for cultivation and supply of medicinal cannabis," he said. john is one of the cofounders of techworld, having previously edited several technology titles including network world, network week and lan magazine. a plane crash that killed 154 people in 2008 might have been partly connected to the infection of an important ground safety system by malware, a spanish newspaper has claimed. the spanair plane took off from madrid to fly to the canary islands on 20 august 2008, but failed to clear the runway. of the 172 passengers and aircrew on board, only 18 survived. the precise cause of the crash remains contentious but was believed by investigators to relate to the md-82 not having its flaps set to the correct position prior to takeoff. given that investigators believe that the pilots twice failed to spot that the flaps were set in the incorrect position for take-off, a ground system used by the airline should have spotted the error and sounded the alarm. according to the newspaper el pais, on the day of the crash this system was not functioning due to an unnamed infection by computer trojans. if the analysis is confirmed, it will be the first known example of malware being directly connected to fatalities. equally, it could be pointed out that if a critical safety check system is inoperable human intervention should have been required to perform that function. reported malware infection of critical systems is still officially a rare event. in 2008, the international space station was hit by a computer worm that infected laptops onboard the orbiting mission after being brought on board by one of the russian crew. two men, including one who has 25 wives and 146 children, were convicted of polygamy on monday in a landmark ruling that upheld canada's longstanding ban on the practice. winston blackmore and james marion oler, who has five wives, face up to five years in prison after being found guilty in the first real test of the country's polygamy law, enacted 127 years ago. three special prosecutors had been appointed over the past two decades to consider bringing charges against the pair, but they backed down over concerns that the law prohibiting polygamy violated canadians' constitutional right to religious freedom. those fears were assuaged in 2011 when british columbia province's supreme court ruled in a reference case that the inherent harms of polygamy justified putting limits on religious freedoms, clearing the way for charges to be filed against blackmore and oler three years later. martin tremblay, the minor hockey coach who tripped two players on the opposing team during post-game handshakes following a spring-league game at ubc last june, has been sentenced to 15 days in jail. video of the incident went viral and has been viewed more than two million times. following the incident, tremblay was charged with assault and pleaded guilty in provincial court in richmond in november. the 48-year-old stormed through the post-game handshake, sticking his right foot out and tripping a pair of players on the richmond steel. one of the players suffered a wrist injury. tremblay was also caught on video flipping his middle finger at the fans in attendance at the game. he has been suspended from coaching by the vancouver minor hockey association. i am a licensed cpa in ny and virginia and have over 18 years of experience in public accounting and private industry specializing in taxation. i graduated with honors from old dominion university with a bachelor's of science degree in business administration. my career began at a large regional firm in virginia where i later accepted a position with a big four national firm. after many years in public accounting, i accepted a leadership role with a multi-billion dollar multinational company and led the compliance and planning efforts for that company. i relocated to chittenango, ny and currently handle all tax matters for a billion dollar company based in syracuse, new york. throughout my career, i have assisted individuals and companies with all types of tax issues and have the knowledge necessary to assist you. karachi: a shaheen air international flight made an emergency landing in karachi, after the aircraft's tyre burst during take-off from islamabad on friday evening. shaheen air international flight nl901 was scheduled to fly from islamabad to manchester, carrying around 150 passenger and crew. but the flight was asked to make an emergency landing in karachi following the tyre burst. the aircraft ran a circuit pattern around karachi's quaid-e-azam international airport before making an emergency landing after the emergency services and air traffic control had cleared the runway. the flight landed safely with all passengers, and crew on board, well and accounted for. earlier in november, at least 10 passengers were injured as the tyre of a domestic shaheen air international flight burst during an emergency landing at allama iqbal international airport. the plane skidded off the lahore runway when faulty landing gear caused the tyre to burst, according to initial reports. the fuselage of the aircraft was damaged after the plane skidded off the runway. nine-time world champion valentino rossi has suffered a broken leg in a training fall this afternoon, breaking the same leg he broke in 2010 while riding enduro with his vr46 academy riders. the movistar yamaha rider is reported to have broken both tibia and fibula in the crash, and will undergo surgery tonight to have the injury repaired. the crash marks the second time this season that he's been injured in a training fall, after going into the italian grand prix in may suffering the effects of rib injuries serious enough to see him spend the night in hospital. however, if the broken leg is confirmed it could be considerably more serious, most certainly delaying any hopes he has of lighting a tenth world title in 2017 despite being only 26 points off championship leader andrea dovizioso after twelve rounds. a few months ago, qatari investors acquired a portfolio of greek commercial properties worth 125 million euros, including a package of five or six gigantic stores in major greek cities. according to george mantzavinatos, managing partner at doha properties wll, his company served as the coordinator of all those purchases on behalf of the qatari investors. the company located the properties and, with the consent of their previous owners, formed the portfolio. he noted that the properties have been bought by private qatari investors and not necessarily by a state fund or qatari royal family member. doha properties also participated in the tender for the astir palace resort in vouliagmeni, acting as a consultant for candidate investors from the middle east. mantzavinatos pointed out that arab investors are highly interested in the greek market and its vast investment potential. he noted that they demand that their purchases be conducted in secrecy. he added that qatari investors choose to purchase properties in regions with energy and geopolitical interests, such as greece. current political instability and conflicts within egypt, syria, iran and iraq have turned arab investors towards the greek market. investors are particularly interested in tourism projects and shopping centers. the astir palace investment by the arab-owned jermyn street real estate fund will likely make greece even more attractive to investors from the arab world. manchester united striker wayne rooney has accepted a fine for his performance in training following a night out, bbc sport understands. rooney went for a meal on boxing day with his wife and fellow players darron gibson and jonny evans. despite no suggestion they misbehaved or drank too much, sir alex ferguson was unhappy with their training performance the next day. rooney was fined one week's wages, and has accepted the punishment. the england striker, who was dropped for united's defeat by blackburn on saturday, is understood to want to draw a line under the matter and get back on the pitch. evans and gibson were also fined and left out of the united squad for the new year's eve match. it is understood each of the three players were treated equally. they went out for the meal after media playback is not supported on this device third goal was the killer - ferguson a manchester united source told the bbc the matter was now considered closed. "we move on and there is no ongoing feud," the source added. it has been reported that ferguson made rooney, evans and gibson come in on wednesday, 28 december - a designated day off - and train on their own. united take on newcastle at the sports direct arena on wednesday. nokia shipped its lumia amber update for windows phone with a host of new features focused on imaging improvements, but the future lumia black update brings more modest changes. nokia is largely improving the glance feature of its lumia handsets with the black update that will ship in the coming weeks. during a session at nokia world in abu dhabi today, nokia detailed changes to glance, the custom screen it displays when the phone is in standby. lumia black will add the image background support we saw recently in beta, and a host of colors to the sleep mode for the feature. nokia is also adding in notification support for the existing lockscreen notifications. while these glance features will come alongside lumia black, nokia is also adding a pedometer to glance. a new steps feature, expected to debut in early 2014, measures the number of steps you're taking with your phone and displays them on the glance screen. it's a neat addition, and it's clear nokia is once again putting a lot of effort into its windows phone customizations and glance in particular. nokia says the lumia black update should start rolling out to devices in the coming weeks. one of australia's biggest crisis support and suicide prevention organisations says it would readily intensify its links with the nrl as the game mourns the loss of another young player. nineteen-year-old francis winterstein, the brother of north queensland cowboys winger antonio winterstein, died earlier in the week. francis had been on a contract with the brisbane broncos but was playing with townsville club stingers. in mourning: cowboys winger antonio winterstein is grieving the death of his younger brother francis. credit:getty images just over a month ago, cowboys under-20 player regan grieve was farewelled by his shattered family while hayden butler, 20 and formerly of the melbourne storm system, was found dead in mackay on the same weekend as grieve's death. the loss of the trio in the space of a few months has again highlighted the code's work in the sphere of the mental health of its participants, which has become an increasingly key issue for professional sports. watford have agreed fees with tottenham to sign their french midfielders etienne capoue and benjamin stambouli, according to sky sources. capoue, 26, is understood to be close to agreeing to personal terms and negotiations are also ongoing with stambouli, although an agreement with the 24-year-old is still some way from being reached. sky sources also understand that watford have agreed terms with greek attacker jose holebas but have not yet finalised a transfer fee with his current club roma. france international capoue joined spurs from toulouse under previous head coach andre villas-boas and featured consistently for the portuguese, but he struggled to maintain a first-team place under successors tim sherwood and mauricio pochettino. capoue has made just 19 premier league starts in two years and did not appear in a tottenham match-day squad in any competition after january 24 this year. stambouli, meanwhile, was signed from montpellier last summer instead of a loan deal for alex song, who joined west ham, but the former france u21 failed to hold down a regular place in pochettino's starting eleven too, making just four premier league starts. benjamin stambouli only signed from spurs last summer the pair are set to become watford's fifth and sixth signings of the summer having been promoted from the championship last term. the hornets have already signed austria defender sebastian prodl, goalkeeper giedrius arlauskis and attacker matej vydra on a permanent deal from udinese. capoue and stambouli are set to follow the recent departures of paulinho to chinese club guangzhou evergrande and lewis holtby to hamburg, as spurs trim down their squad ahead of the new season. sky sources understand that strikers emmanuel adebayor and roberto soldado, defenders younes kaboul and vlad chiriches, and winger aaron lennon are also available to other clubs at the right price. fort mojave - a fifth-grade teacher in fort mojave has been arrested on five counts of aggravated assault on a child for allegedly touching five female students on their backs while they were answering questions in class. mohave county sheriff's spokeswoman trish carter says 70-year-old william temple cole was arrested friday and posted bond the following day. deputies began investigating after officials at fort mojave elementary reported in november that he may be touching girls inappropriately. carter said on monday that cole is accused of putting his hand under girls' shirts while they were asking questions in class. he is not accused of touching the children on their chests or genitals. there is no phone listing for cole in the area. a message passed to cole by the sheriff's office seeking comment drew no immediate response. a team of mit researchers has found a way of precisely controlling lab grown microfibers making it possible to grow complex structures that are optimally designed for particular applications. the researchers were able to control and vary both the size and composition of individual wires as they grew. nanowires are grown by using "seed" particles, metal nanoparticles that determine the size and composition of the nanowire; by adjusting the amount of gases used in growing the nanowires, scientists were able to control the size and composition of the seed particles and, therefore, the nanowires as they grew. using a process called electron tomography, they were able to reconstruct the three-dimensional shape of individual nanoscale wires. the scientists comment that their findings can be used in more energy efficient low-cost led lights and low-cost solar energy panels. a ban on synthetic cannabis has failed to stop its sale and may have caused stronger forms of the party drug to hit the market. sold as kronic, northern lights, spice and amsterdam high, the herbal-chemical blend was in effect outlawed in july when eight cannabis-like chemicals were banned by australia's federal medicines regulator. police struggle to control the fake weed market. credit:ken irwin but it is still being sold widely in melbourne in ''legal high'' stores, tobacconists and sex shops, as suppliers have got around the law by reformulating brands with chemicals that have a similar effect but are not on the banned list. victoria police told the sunday age the drugs were virtually impossible to control as there was no way to know what chemicals were in them without forensic tests. dothan, alabama -- a dothan attorney isn't happy with the christmas tree in the lobby of the houston county courthouse, and has filed requests to delay his cases until after the holidays or until the tree is removed. the dothan eagle reports billy joe sheffield ii isn't opposed to the tree, but says the photographs of victims of crime hanging on the tree could influence jurors. the tree was put up tuesday by pat jones, who is the founder and president of the southeast alabama chapter of victims of crime and leniency. the local vocal chapter was started by jones in 1995 five years after her mother was murdered. the tree now sits in the courthouse's first-floor lobby near the elevators. most of sheffield's requests have been denied, although he is still waiting on the ruling on a couple of requests. cape canaveral - scientists say they finally have "solid evidence" for planet x, a true ninth planet on the fringes of our solar system. the gas giant is thought to be almost as big as neptune and orbiting billions of miles beyond neptune's path - distant enough to take 10,000 to 20,000 years to circle the sun. this planet 9, as the two caltech researchers call it, hasn't been spotted yet. they base their findings on mathematical and computer modeling, and anticipate its discovery via telescope within five years. the two reported on their research wednesday in the astronomical journal. once it's detected, the researchers insist there will be no pluto-style planetary debate. they ought to know; one of them, mike brown, is the so-called pluto killer. dallas -- nba commissioner david stern and dallas mavericks owner mark cuban, a pair of basketball power brokers who have differed on plenty of topics over the years, agree that they'd like to get rid of the one-and-done trend with draft prospects. the rules currently require an american player to be at least 19 years old and a year out of high school before he can declare for the nba draft, which is why the lottery is littered with phenoms coming off their college freshman seasons each year. stern said tuesday that he'd like to add a year to the rule. cuban wants to take it a step further, requiring players to wait three years after their high school class graduates to become draft-eligible. "i just think there's every good reason to do it, which is obviously why we didn't do it," cuban said sarcastically, adding that kentucky fans were the only people who like the one-and-done concept. it's a moot point unless the players' union agrees to change the draft-eligibility rules, something the nba didn't make a priority while negotiating a new collective bargaining agreement during the lockout. at this point, the union has agreed only to form a committee to discuss changes. sergio ramos targets clasico comeback nursing a knee injury since october 9, sergio ramos was initially ruled out for six weeks, though the spanish defender could now be back a bit sooner as his efforts towards recovery are being rewarded in recent weeks. just two weeks since his injury, it is expected that ramos will be back two weeks earlier than once thought, as he'll miss the next five matches and will be finishing his recovery during the upcoming international break. right after that lull in club action, los blancos will face atletico madrid in the derby on november 19, and ramos is working hard to make it back in time. that match is within the realms of possibility without forcing the issue for the centre-back, as the treatment received and regimen being followed is highlighting the player's excellent overall fitness. authorities in azerbaijan are rejecting accusations of a crackdown on gay and transgender people in the ex-soviet nation. the interior ministry and the prosecutor general's office said in a joint statement tuesday that raids in the capital, baku, targeted those accused of offering unsolicited sexual services, violating public order and spreading infectious diseases. they said that all 83 people detained on sept. 15-30 have been freed from custody, but 32 diagnosed with having sexually transmitted diseases were sent for medical treatment. they said that 12 of them were diagnosed with hiv, of whom six had developed aids. the statement followed accusations from human rights groups, which accused azerbaijani authorities of cracking down on lgbt people. homosexuality was decriminalized in majority-muslim azerbaijan in 2000, but animosity toward lgbt people remains strong. a 34-year-old man from mambo died during treatment from a traditional healer after suffering from an hours long erection. the man, identified as shelton dinganga of zaranyika road, mambo, zimbabwe, landed in his dubious dilemma after sleeping with a married woman. dinganga's relatives said he had sex with a relative's wife and his penis remained erect while his other parts became swollen. "dinganga had suddenly disappeared from public life after coming back from kwekwe where he had visited a family relative whom he was said to be flirting with. we were shocked when his family members later informed us of his death on tuesday morning," a neighbour said. the neighbour further said that it was during dinganga's burial that they got to know that he had died when his penis remained erect after he had sex with the female relative in kwekwe. "this was partly revealed by a relative who thanked the inyanga for doing his best to try and save dinganga. he also reportedly turned down his family members' attempts to take him to the hospital," he said. dinganga's family refused to comment on either his death or his alleged affair with the female relative. shadow of mordor free dlc lets you play as lithariel you can now play as the warrior princess from the main campaign; plus, a new super-tough challenge mode. middle-earth: shadow of mordor is getting another free batch of downloadable content today. the "power of defiance" bundle wraps up a new skin, challenge mode, and epic rune. with the new character skin you can play as lithariel, the daughter of lady marwen, who plays a role in the main story. presumably, talion's very male-sounding voice will be swapped out as well. a "test of defiance" challenge mode has you take on warchiefs without being able to revive or use wraith powers. reviving gets a little easier with the new rune, defiant to the end, which gives you an additional last chance. the pack is now available via a free update on pc via steam, playstation 4, and xbox one. this is similar to the power of shadow dlc that came out shortly after release, which also included a new skin and runes. exclusive offer from giveaway of the day and myplaycity! no third-party advertising and browser add-ons! when a new romance blossoms, the door to mystery opens in love alchemy: a heart in winter. follow a young woman as she's caught in the tightening web of intrigue surrounding her charming but mysterious lover. to do so, you'll have to search for hidden objects, solve puzzles, and win mini-games, even as the game romances you with its astonishing beauty. from opulent castle halls, to creepy dungeons, to exotic faraway lands, you'll want to stop and soak in the visual splendor. but you won't because each discovery will lure you closer to an ending you won't expect. if you enjoy adventures that hold your heart in their grip like a budding romance, then play love alchemy. as the door to mystery opens, you'll be helpless against it! coffee drinker dan saladino investigates britain's relationship with tea and finds out how our tastes have changed over 300 years. it poses a question, do we pay enough for tea? hardened coffee drinker dan saladino investigates tea's past, present and future and finds out how our preference for the leaf has changed over three centuries. he visits the location of britain's first tea retailer, hears the adventures of legendary tea hunter john fortune and visits the site of an auction house which oversaw 85 per cent of all global tea trade. in south west india we hear from a team of tea pluckers and get an insight into the skill and labour involved in producing tea. do we pay enough for a cup of tea? it's a question dan will develop in the second instalment of this tea story. presented by dan saladino and produced in bristol. the npower league two club beat hull yesterday and will be hoping to create an even bigger shock against tony pulis' men. league one stevenage host tottenham, while brighton's reward for beating newcastle is a trip to anfield to face liverpool, who beat them in the third round of the carling cup. liverpool are searching for a second wembley final appearance this season after they beat manchester city to reach the carling cup showpiece. their merseyside rivals everton are also at home, against blackpool or sheffield wednesday, while chelsea host last year's carling cup winners birmingham. there is only one potential all-premier league clash with the winners of the replay between sunderland and middlesbrough, who drew earlier today, drawn against arsenal or aston villa. norwich will host leicester, while bolton go to either millwall or southampton. guardiola: monaco are killers in the box monaco look to bernardo silva in man city clash always active on the transfer front, real madrid continue to search all across europe for football's biggest stars, whether they be established names or up-and comers, and monaco duo of bernardo silva and kylian mbappe hasn't gone unnoticed in the spanish capital. scouts and other technical staff have realised that monaco's ligue 1 leading form is no coincidence and that young promising players like bernardo silva, bakayoko, lemar, and mbappe continue to stand out under coach leonardo jardim. bernardo silva has already been linked with a move to los blancos in the past, as the 22-year-old attacking midfielder continues to shine. mbappe too has impressed, his goalscoring rate and partnership with radamel falcao creating one of europe's deadliest strike forces. the 18-year-old striker has even earned comparisons to a young thierry henry because of his exploits. the scouting reports from both players are glowing and the merengues are intent on not letting a player like borussia dortmund's ousmane dembele or alexander isak slip through the cracks again. mbappe is the youngest ever scorer for monaco and made his debut back in december of 2015, which means he has plenty of first-team experience for a player his age. meanwhile, atletico madrid are interested in 21-year-old midfielder thomas lemar. one thing is for certain, these players may not be at monaco for very long, and real madrid want to make sure the very best are headed their way. one of the candidates vying to be the next west australian senator for the liberal party has described supporters of refugee-friendly policies as "a bunch of cockroaches" swarming all over his former electorate. michael sutherland, the former speaker in the wa parliament who lost his inner city seat in march, made the comments at a liberal party event in sydney last month. he is one of the five men revealed to be vying in this weekend's pre-selection for the senate vacancy created by the retirement of liberal chris back. born in south africa, mr sutherland has refused to provide proof he has relinquished his dual-citizenship, despite two greens senators resigning in the past week after it emerged they were citizens of other countries. speaking at a panel discussion on how the liberals can combat anti-fracking campaign groups, mr sutherland said such activists had overrun his former electorate of mount lawley. back in december, we reported on a new "pseudo-drawer" for the youtube app on android - replacing the horizontal list of avatars and activity indicators found on phones, the drawer gave users a scrollable vertical list of subscriptions - avatars and names - along with actual numbers. now, it looks like the drawer is getting some tweaks. first, it overlaps the ui when expanded now, rather than pushing everything to the side. whether this is better or not is debatable, but the more important change is inside the drawer itself. instead of just "channels," the drawer header now has filters to let users sort their subscriptions by relevance or new activity. the drawer's latest changes seem to be rolling out gradually so you may not see it on your own devices just yet. we're just glad to see more thoughtful tablet-specific design decisions. a group of republican lawmakers has approved a bill that would pass up federal dollars in order to remove state funding for planned parenthood. the senate judiciary committee voted 8-5 tuesday in support of the legislation, and it now heads to the senate for a full floor vote. the bill has strong support in the republican-majority senate and house. the bill proposes iowa give up millions in federal medicaid money in order to fund its own state-run program that distributes funding for family planning services. the bill excludes money for organizations that provide abortions, though no family planning dollars are now spent on abortions. republicans say the bill would redistribute money to rural health clinics that offer family planning services. democrats contend it would hurt access to quality health care. kcna, reuters, bbc north korea's state television showed photos and video of kim jong-un's powerful uncle jang song-thaek being physically removed from a government meeting. jang, who was often seen by kim's side, was dismissed for "what is described as a string of criminal acts including corruption, womanising and drug-taking," reports reuters. "ideologically sick and extremely idle and easy-going, he used drugs and squandered foreign currency at casinos while he was receiving medical treatment in a foreign country under the care of the party," said kcna via bbc. the stunning images don't end there. the bbc has some of the story aired by kcna, and it shows side-by-side video of jang literally having been edited out of previous appearances with kim. see this: kcna via bbc and: kcna via bbc and: kcna via bbc "rare moments like these are perhaps the closest we'll come, at least for now, to observing directly the workings of the north korean state," said bbc's lucy williamson reporting from seoul. a bartow man is behind bars after deputies said he beat a 2-year-old boy with a clothes hanger. deputies said david lee sinnett, 32, hit the child because the boy, who has a speech impediment, could not pronounce his sister's name correctly. investigators said the boy was taken to winter haven hospital early wednesday morning for treatment of a black eye. according to the arrest affidavit, the examination revealed the boy was also bruised on both sides of his face, his right shoulder, the middle of his back and his buttocks. the doctor who examined the boy said he had also suffered a fractured orbital bone, which doctors say could cause permanent eye damage or even blindness. when detectives interviewed sinnett, he told them that he gets frustrated with the boy's inability to pronounce his sister's name correctly because he thinks the boy does not try. sinnett admitted to hitting the boy twice on the back, and that he hit him because he was too close to a wall outlet, the report said. sinnett said the facial bruises happened when the boy fell off a skateboard several days earlier. sinnett was arrested and charged with aggravated child abuse. he remains in polk county jail on no bond. deputies did not release the relationship between sinnett and the boy. sinnett has previously been arrested 11 times, including one arrest in 2005 for attempted second-degree murder. he spent five years in prison after he was convicted of a lesser charge of aggravated assault and was released in may 2010 on probation. every year, throughout the world, millions of young girls are forced into marriage. child marriage is outlawed in many countries and international agreements forbid the practice yet this tradition still spans continents, language, religion and caste. over an eight-year period, photographer stephanie sinclair has investigated the phenomenon of child marriage in india, yemen, afghanistan, nepal and ethiopia. her multimedia presentation, produced in association with national geographic, synthesizes this body of work into a call to action. in a related post stephanie sinclair shares the difficult experiences child brides face. she discusses the need for their voices to be heard and the challenges she faced as a journalist who witnessed their struggles and abuse. stephanie sinclair's images are featured in a story on child marriage in the june 2011 issue of national geographic magazine. how to help: national geographic has compiled a list of organizations that encourage families to delay marriage and give girls an opportunity to reach their full potential. up to 20 juvenile offenders who "pelted" prison workers with projectiles, listing the re-election of us president barack obama among other demands, face charges over a night-long riot that forced many workers into hiding at a north queensland youth jail. police still did not know why the prisoners, who were playing football on the oval when an incident elsewhere in the townsville facility diverted staff attention, began damaging the prison and assaulting staff, gaining "free rein" over the centre on thursday night. some of the offenders climbed on a roof and began demanding kfc, drugs and alcohol, reportedly refusing to come down unless mr obama was re-elected us president for an unconstitutional third term. northern police region assistant commissioner paul taylor said 29 staff were forced to seek refuge in the cleveland youth detention centre's visitor centre, with four injured. sydney's bus drivers say they are encountering an increasing number of gremlins in the opal card system, claiming that ticket readers are breaking down more than they ever have. transport minister gladys berejiklian has always said that making the public transport smartcard work on buses would be the most difficult element of rolling out the opal system. broken: bus drivers say the opal card system is breaking down more than ever. but unions representing drivers for both the government-owned state transit and the private bus networks say opal readers on buses are malfunctioning at a growing rate. according to a survey by the transport workers union, which represents drivers for private bus operators, 60 per cent of a sample of 58 drivers said they encountered issues with opal readers at least once a day. over the last 40 years, corporate influence and trickle-down ideology have pervaded the tax code, resulting in large tax breaks for corporations and the wealthy. these low rates have failed to deliver the widespread growth that was promised, and the results for the typical american have been disastrous: wealth at the top skyrocketed with no equivalent boom in growth. at the same time, median wages have remained largely stagnant, and the united states now ranks 10th out of 13 oecd countries in upward mobility. to correct our current trajectory, america needs a wholesale reconsideration of tax incentives and their impact on various economic activities. in this brief based on previously published work by roosevelt institute chief economist joseph e. stiglitz, we propose a new paradigm for thinking about the tax system: rather than rewarding bad behavior and using the tax and transfer system to redress poor outcomes after the fact, the tax code should be structured to encourage productive economic activities and a more equitable pre-tax distribution. the tax code can be used to adjust incentives and curb shortsighted, risky, and otherwise undesirable economic behavior. loopholes should be closed, high taxes should be levied on harmful activities, and tax cuts and subsidies should be focused on productive investment that promotes inclusive growth and general well-being. our proposal aims to bring about inclusive growth through tax reform built around progressivity and positive incentives. chris lytle brought the house down at submission underground, where he faced jake shields in a thrilling submission-only grappling matchup. the bout eventually went to shields, who won via superior ride time in overtime, but it's everything that happened prior to shields' hand being raised that sent viewers live and online into a frenzy. shields largely controlled the bout with his classic top pressure and a relentless barrage of submission attempts, but lytle proved why he had never been submitted throughout his combat sports career time and again, slipping out at the last possible second. lytle had his moments as well, none better than an armbar attempt during the overtime period. lytle locked up the submission and appeared close to finishing the bout, but shields rose to his feet and eventually slipped out, shrugging lytle's near-attempt away at the last possible second. in this video, lytle discusses the bout, atmosphere inside the roseland theater, and more. the answer is apparently because all men, hipsters included, feel under threat from other men, and growing a beard is an attempt to appear as aggressive and dominant as possible. researchers looked at more than 100 species of primate and found that the males of the species develop "badges" to stand out, such as the elongated noses of proboscis monkeys, cheek flanges in orang-utans, upper-lip warts in golden snub-nosed monkeys, or beards in hipsters. it is understood that male primates believe these badges can help give them an edge over other males in attracting females. scientists, from the university of western australia, also found that the more conflict-ridden and competitive a society, the more conspicuous these badges would be. lead study author dr cyril grueter wrote: "when you live in a small group where everyone knows everyone because of repeated interactions, there is no need to signal quality and competitiveness via ornaments. in large groups where individuals are surrounded by strangers, we need a quick reliable tool to evaluate someone's strength and quality, and that's where these elaborate ornaments come in. voters in ohio are being reminded to register by the end of today if they wish to vote in the november election. tuesday, october 10th is the deadline for all voter registration forms. registrations can be turned in to the local county board of elections offices. voters in ohio can also register to vote online on the secretary of state's website. to register online you will need to provide the following: ohio driver's license or ohio identification card number name date of birth address last four digits of your social security number from wednesday, october 11th through the november 7th election, voters will get the chance to cast their ballots on two state issues, as well as any local ballot measures. the two ballot measures- issue 1 and issue 2, take on the rights of victims of crimes and prescription prices. locally, just a few of the issues that are on voter's radars are the races for youngstown mayor, warren city auditor, and columbiana city mayor. there are also a number of levies on the ballots ranging from safety forces and ambulance levies to parks and cemetery levies. americans spread the blame when it comes to the lack of cooperation in washington, and, in a new washington post-abc news poll, most want the two sides to keep working to pass comprehensive health-care reform. nearly six in 10 in the new poll say the republicans aren't doing enough to forge compromise with president obama on important issues; more than four in 10 see obama as doing too little to get gop support. among independents, 56 percent see the republicans in congress as too unbending and 50 percent say so of the president; 28 percent of independents say both sides are doing too little to find agreement. as party leaders tussle over the proposed bipartisan health care summit, nearly two-thirds of americans say they want congress to keep working to pass comprehensive health-care reform. democrats overwhelmingly support continued action on this front, as do 56 percent of independents and 42 percent of republicans. the sticky part of widespread desire for compromise is that it's simple to want it from the other side. about three-quarters of democrats see the congressional republicans as intransigent, while a similar proportion of republicans see obama that way. but even republicans are critical of their congressional leadership, with 44 percent seeing them as doing too little to strike deals with obama; that compares with just 13 percent of democrats worried about inaction on obama's part. at the same time, the president does pick up some criticism from the left here: 18 percent of liberal democrats say obama is doing too much to compromise with the gop on big issues. more from the poll conducted thursday through monday will be released tomorrow in the washington post. the margin of sampling error for the results from the full random sample of 1,004 adults is plus or minus three percentage points. former turnbull government minister scott ryan has been elected senate president, replacing stephen parry who was ensnared in the citizenship saga. senator ryan resigned from his role as special minister of state to replace mr parry who left parliament after it was revealed he held dual citizenship. the victorian liberal senator defeated greens candidate peter whish-wilson in a ballot on monday. "it was not a circumstance i thought would present itself nor one i thought would present itself to me in the year immediately," senator ryan told parliament. the greens argued a crossbench president would restore integrity to parliament. "this government and the way it has handled this citizenship crisis, is a disgrace, and you have brought disrespect onto the position of the president of the senate by how you have handled this constitutional crisis," senator whish-wilson said. senator ryan picked up 53 votes, ahead of senator whish-wilson with 11, while there was one invalid ballot paper. shia labeouf, one of the most captivating young creatives of our time, has been doing his thing with these livestream art performances, but his latest might be his greatest. kicking off at the museum of the moving image in new york is he will not divide us, a four-year project that launched on the day donald trump becomes head cheeto and president of the united states of america. he will not divide us consists of a wall on the outside of the museum with the words he will not divide us and a camera that will be livestreaming via the website for the duration of trump's presidency. people are being asked to get on the stream and say the phrase "he will not divide us" as much or as little as they want. "in this way, the mantra "he will not divide us" acts as a show of resistance or insistence, opposition or optimism, guided by the spirit of each individual participant and the community," reads the official website. shia's latest exhibit has already received some impressive star power in the form of jaden smith. now even if you think dedicating four years to this is a bit crazy, you have to respect shia taking his established brand and using it for something bigger than him. with so many out there feeling like january 20, 2017 is the darkest of days, there are rays of hope, and things like these can really help get a message out. or, at the very least, let you know that if you aren't here for trump, you are not alone. the controversial club lost the second leg 1-0 away to second division runners-up aarau but held out comfortably for a 3-1 aggregate win. sion would almost certainly have finished bottom of the table after the penalty but were saved when neuchatel xamax were kicked out of the league in january for a series of financial irregularities under russian-born owner bulat chagaev. neuchatel officially finished bottom of the 10-team standings, the only direct relegation spot, giving sion ninth place and the chance of a play-off. there was still controversy as aarau protested over the presence of sion's serey die, even though he was handed an eight-match ban two weeks ago for slapping a ball boy in the face. the ivorian appealed the decision and, under the competition rules, was allowed to continue playing until the hearing takes place, which might not be until next season. sion were kicked out of the europa league this season for fielding players they had signed while subject to a fifa transfer ban. the club's volatile president christian constantin then took the case to a civil court, defying fifa and uefa statutes, and switzerland was threatened with an international ban unless action was taken against sion. having lost their case, sion were deducted 36 points. the match brought the curtain down on one of the most tumultuous seasons switzerland has experienced, with crowd violence forcing a grasshoppers-fc zurich derby to be abandoned and servette geneva also filing for bankruptcy. two months after a gunman killed dozens inside an orlando nightclub, the sound of popping balloons prompted shoppers to frantically flee an orlando mall, injuring nine. orange county sheriff's officials spokeswoman deputy rose silva tells news outlets there was no gunman at the florida mall. the loud sounds were actually from six large balloons being popped as part of an industry-standard inspection for the grand opening of former 'nsync singer joey fatone's new restaurant. deputies say an announcement was made on the pa system informing shoppers and employees that the test was about to be conducted, but the loud noises still caused people to run. orange county fire and rescue officials say nine people were treated at the scene, including four who were hospitalized for minor injuries. brendan rodgers has made one change to his liverpool team to face crystal palace at anfield on saturday, with raheem sterling replacing the suspended lucas leiva for the reds. with lucas picking up a fifth booking of the season at sunderland last weekend, the manager has chosen sterling to complement a team which could claim top spot in the barclays premier league today. after making his premier league return with a brace against the black cats, luis suarez is also included in attack alongside daniel sturridge. the reds' xi in full is: mignolet, sakho, toure, skrtel, enrique, henderson, gerrard, sterling, moses, sturridge, suarez. subs: jones, ibe, wisdom, agger, aspas, ilori, alberto. click here to follow all of the action from anfield with our live minute-by-minute updates and accompanying audio commentary. the los angeles dodgers forfeited a game to the st. louis cardinals in the ninth inning last night after fans at dodger stadium threw souvenir baseballs on the field three times. it was the first forfeit in the major leagues since july 12, 1979, when the second game of a doubleheader between detroit and chicago was called off after a raucous anti-disco promotion left the field unplayable. the cardinals were leading by 2-1 in the bottom of the ninth when raul mondesi struck out leading off the inning. mondesi was upset that the two previous pitches were called strikes, and was ejected by the plate umpire jim quick for arguing. manager tom lasorda came out and was ejected, too, and fans started throwing baseballs on the field. the umpires ordered the cardinals to leave the field while the balls were being picked up. after the grounds crew finished, the cardinals went back on the field and a few more balls were thrown. the umpires then called the game. advertisement continue reading the main story there also was a delay of about six minutes in the seventh inning when balls came flying out of the stands. javier 'chicharito' hernandez says that his lack of minutes when he spent last season with real madrid is to blame for his lack of success. hernandez scored 26 goals for bayer leverkusen this campaign, as he became the undisputed starter in the striker position. "had i had the chance of playing 20 matches in a row for manchester united and real madrid maybe i could've been the star, but we will never know," said hernandez. "my numbers are there, i started 80 matches for united and scored 65 goals, while in madrid i just started 12 games and managed to score 9 goals, so the only difference is that i had enough minutes to prove my worth in leverkusen," he added. hernandez is under contract with leverkusen until the summer of 2018 - as he joined the team last summer for 12 million euros. the sublime, in aesthetic theory, is something powerful and terrifying that arouses a strange feeling of pleasure in the subject. for example, when viewing a hurricane or vast desert wasteland you can be overwhelmed by their awesome force, but exulted at the same time. for schopenhauer, this involved a kind of "turning away of the will". the sheer awesome power of the object overwhelms our will and violently turns it away from ourselves, and we enter into a will-less state of pure contemplation of the object, which results in a strange exultation: the sublime. this is an unstable state, which is difficult to maintain, because any awareness of the particular danger that the object causes us, or reflection on ourselves in relation to the object, would destroy the affect. so we feel the sublime at witnessing the awesome power of a tornado, but if we become aware that the tornado is in fact heading towards us and is probably going to kill us, we will just feel regular old, non-sublimey terror. one of my older comics was a more serious take on this aesthetic theory. if you are interested in more, this is a pretty good lecture of schopenhauer's aesthetics, by alex neill. the stanford encyclopedia also has a good article on it. the art is a reference to caspar david friedrich's wanderer above the sea of fog, which is commonly used to portray the sublime in art, and many of his other paintings had similar themes. the nbc 10 i-team was first to report donald morgan, the man wanted for stealing a rhode island state police cruiser, was arrested friday night in cumberland. ri state police later confirmed morgan was taken into custody by members of the rhode island violent fugitive task force. he is being held overnight and will be arraigned saturday. on thursday morning, morgan somehow moved himself from the back of a state police car into the driver's seat. he drove away while the trooper was outside the car tending to a car accident. the cruiser was found a short time later on the providence-cranston line, but morgan, 35, was not located. the chase ended with police shooting 40 bullets into the truck near providence place mall, killing the driver who fled and wounding his passenger, though neither was connected to morgan. with the 2011 virginia tech hokies' football season coming to a close with the disappointing loss to the michigan wolverines in the sugar bowl, hokie fans also have to face the disappointment of saying good-bye to a number of key players. however, that's college football for you, and good programs like virginia tech are always reloading with new talent. the hokies are currently in the process of reeling in the no. 20 recruiting class in the country. players like danny coale, jarrett boykin, david wilson and jayron hosley will be hard to replace, but there are guys who are ready and willing to take the challenge. here are five of the hokies' 2012 recruits that you should be most excited about, listed with the virginia tech players they are set to replace. the move by fiji water to stop operating in the pacific nation that gave the popular brand its name, indicates the company doesn't care about the country, fiji's interim prime minister says. on monday, the company, owned by california entrepreneurs lynda and stewart resnick, said it was closing its facility in fiji, cancelling orders from suppliers and putting on hold several construction contracts in the country. fiji water made the call to pull the pin because they'd been singled out for a massive tax increase by the military appointed government - led by self-appointed prime minister frank bainimarama. on tuesday, commodore bainimarama said fiji water had unfairly criticised the south pacific country. "as usual fiji water has adopted tactics that demonstrate that fiji water does not care about fiji or fijians," commodore bainimarama said in a statement. dr jonathan foyle, architectural historian and novice climber, scales britain's most iconic structures, from the normans to the present day, to reveal the buildings' secrets and tell the story of how our architecture and construction has developed over 1,000 years. the next step of jonathan foyle's journey takes him to the liver building in liverpool. built from 1908, this behemoth in concrete was britain's first skyscraper that influenced buildings all over the world. on his climbs jonathan, aided by top climber lucy creamer, scales over 250 feet to reveal how this granite building isn't quite what it seems and investigates how a concrete boat paved the way for this immense skyscraper. he climbs up a disused lift shaft to literally get under the skin of this groundbreaking construction; comes face-to-face with the biggest clock in britain; and tests the limits of his courage to traverse over a sheer drop of over 200 feet to get up close and personal with a couple of beautiful birds. when tony abbott recently accused the labor government's budget of being a foray into class warfare, he tried to make this sound like a dirty trick. but what's wrong with a little class warfare? isn't it the job of an alleged workers' party to represent its less privileged constituents? labor was quick to deny the accusation, which tells us abbott may have been on to something. the fact that australia is a deeply divided nation is something most politicians are reluctant to admit publicly; for them, "class" is a dirty word. illustration: judy green politicians are keen to avoid using this ultimate c-word because they don't want to be seen as being radical in their thinking. as soon as someone introduces the idea that some groups in australia do better than others, it raises questions that don't come with easy answers. central to our national myth is the idea that we are an egalitarian nation. we are the land of the fabled fair go, where anyone can succeed if they try hard enough. we like to think of our nation as stable and prosperous, which helps to explain why most australians describe themselves, when pushed, as middle class. final score: rangers 3, blue jays 6 in one of the craziest win-or-go-home games you'll ever see, the toronto blue jays came out on top with a 6-3 victory over the texas rangers as they advance on to the american league championship series. with things knotted up at 2-2 through six innings, the two teams put together a 53-minute seventh inning with no shortage of memorable moments. the rangers scored a bizarre run in the top half when russell martin hit shin-soo choo's bat when he was throwing the ball back to the pitcher. rougned odor came in to score from third base when the ball skipped away, and after originally calling the play a dead ball he was eventually awarded home plate and the run. that put the rogers centre up for grabs, as beer bottles and garbage rained down on the field and there was a brief delay while order was restored. with emotions running high, the blue jays loaded the bases in the bottom of the inning on three straight errors by the rangers. josh donaldson then tied things up with a bloop single to right field, before jose bautista launched a pitch from sam dyson to deep left field for a three-run home run that would prove to be the difference. the blue jays called on 20-year-old closer roberto osuna to record the final five outs of the game, and he was perfect, striking out four of the five batters he faced to nail down the save and send toronto on to the next round. they'll face the winner of the kansas city royals and houston astros game later tonight. scientists spotted the unlikely friends near the azores islands, an archipelago about 900 miles off the coast of portugal. according to a recent report in science magazine, two behavioral ecologists from german marine research firm leibniz institute of freshwater ecology and inland fisheries watched the adult bottlenose dolphin with an s-shaped spine "while it nuzzled and rubbed" against a group of sperm whales that were traveling together. the magazine notes that the sperm whales even "reciprocated" the contact. the researchers observed this behavior seven times over an eight-day period in 2011, and they believe the relationship between the whales and the dolphin to have been a purely social alliance, per science mag. the researchers theorized that the dolphin's scoliosis prevented it from keeping up with its pod, or gave the dolphin "a low social status," prompting it to seek the company of the whales, according to the article. rare though inter-species friendships may be, this isn't the first time that dolphins befriending whales has made the news. in 2008 a bottlenose dolphin who was known for playing with humans led two beached pygmy sperm whales back to safety after apparently responding to the whales' calls for help. in response to the incident, the bbc, citing justin gregg of the dolphin communication project, reported that a pygmy sperm whale and dolphin "might have signals in common," which would allow them to communicate with one another. but gregg stressed that their means of communication would have been very basic, the bbc notes. things may get better for the sperm whale in coming years, however. the iucn points out that, while commercial whaling caused a significant reduction in the global population of the sperm whale in the past, whaling is no longer widespread and its effects are reversible. an international team has uncovered the full dna sequence of the potato for the first time, the journal nature reports. the breakthrough holds out the promise of boosting harvests of one of the world's most important staple crops. researchers at the james hutton institute in dundee, which contributed to the work, say it should soon be possible to develop improved varieties of potato much more quickly. the genome of an organism is a map of how all of its genes are put together. each gene controls different aspects of how the organism grows and develops. slight changes in these instructions give rise to different varieties. each individual has a slightly different version of the dna sequence for the species. professor iain gordon, chief executive of the james hutton institute, said decoding the potato genome should enable breeders to create varieties which are more nutritious, as well as resistant to pests and diseases. colour and flavour he hopes it will help meet the challenge of feeding the world's soaring population. the research is far from complete. analysing the genetic sequence of the plant will take several more years. at the moment it can take more than 10 years to breed an improved variety. by locating the genes that control traits like yield, colour, starchiness and flavour, the research should make it possible to develop better spuds much more quickly. potatoes provide the world's fourth-largest crop, with an annual, global yield of 330m tonnes. hay producers are struggling to fill the demand for animal feed from western livestock producers hit by this year's drought. cattle ranchers in british columbia, alberta, saskatchewan and manitoba are facing shortages and looking for supplies to get through the fall and winter. bob seaman of valley hay and cattle south of calgary says prices have risen and he has a waiting list of 300 producers looking for feed. he says it's a bit of payback for hay growers after years of high fuel prices and low returns. brian perillat, manager for the canfax division of the canadian cattlemen's association, says hay prices have more than doubled from what they were a year ago. he says that's been somewhat offset by near-record beef prices, which make the extra feed costs easier for cattle producers to handle. there is no better way to remember a loved one who has passed on than with a beautiful cremation urn for their ashes. cremation urns allow the family members to keep their loved one near while protecting the earthly remains of the departed. these beautiful vessels are a wonderful alternative to a traditional casket that gets buried in the ground. many individuals now prefer cremation because it is an environmentally and economically friendly option. wood, stone, metal, biodegradable and ceramic vessels are just some of the materials used to create the urns that hold ashes. some families also choose scattering urns, which are used to store the ashes before they are scattered as part of a memorial ceremony. these containers tend to be made from biodegradable materials that can be recycled after they have been used. some scattering urns are made to cast the ashes into the wind. birdhouse scattering urns scatter the ashes and then convert into a living memorial birdhouse. a wide variety of cremation urns for ashes are available, including personal cremation urns. the right cremation urn can help ease the pain of losing a loved one and will provide an important way to remember that special individual for years to come. if you have any questions about selecting the right cremation urn for your needs, please remember that cremation solutions is always just a phone call or email away. join us on the immersive petroleum discord channel! for jei support, take a look at just enough petroleum by bordlistian! immersive petroleum is a lightweight content add-on for immersive engineering that introduces oil, oil extraction, and oil processing to the mod's tech progression. it includes an expansive set of configuration options to ensure that it will be a welcome addition to any modpack that includes immersive engineering. mod information to utilize immersive petroleum, players must first locate an oil deposit buried deep belowground, trapped under a thick layer of bedrock. the core sample drill can be used to detect these reservoirs. once a source of oil is discovered, pumpjacks can be built to pump the crude oil to the surface. using the large distillation tower multiblock, crude oil is heated to separate it into layers of varying boiling points. from the crude oil input, the structure produces diesel, gasoline, lubricant, and bitumen. diesel acts as a less environmentally friendly but longer-burning alternative to biodiesel, whereas gasoline can fuel the included motorboat and portable generators. lubricant allows you to speed up your machines. bitumen is a gooey byproduct that's used in making asphalt paving. the initial version of immersive petroleum includes all you need to start building your oil empire, including the pumpjack and distillation tower, portable generator, lubricant can, automatic lubricator, motorboat, projectors, and asphalt paving. expect to see new multiblock machines, from bedrock-piercing oil derricks to cokers that can crack bitumen into diesel and petcoke in the future. for more information, look in the oil processing section of the engineer's manual. overview video modpack information no permissions are needed to use the mod - go ahead and include immersive petroleum in your pack! here's a wiki article with tips on configuring this addon to fit your modpack. detroit - donovan lyles could have given up. the now 7-year-old boy was sitting his living room two years ago when a bullet shattered the room's window and hit him in the face, robbing him of his left eye. rushed to children's hospital with critical injuries, his life hung in the balance. the next day, his mom says, he was up and playing in the hospital gym. that's donovan, the infectious second-grader at thurgood marshall school in detroit. he's constant motion, endlessly friendly, and a good student. every day he wore an eye patch to school, a reminder of the wound from that terrible night. last year, a chance encounter with local 4's hank winchester sparked a friendship -- and a series of helping actions for a boy who'd endured much. watch the story above to see winchester's warm relationship with donovan, and a touching conclusion that leaves many in tears. copyright 2017 by wdiv clickondetroit - all rights reserved. congressman jason chaffetz arrives on scooter to cast health care vote congressman jason chaffetz interrupted his recuperation to cast his vote on the health care bill. chaffetz is recovering from surgery he had last week to remove 14 screws and a metal plate in his foot. he said he would chill in his home state of utah for a few weeks before returning to washington, but clearly this was a can't-miss vote. chaffetz was not able to enter the chambers on his own steam but rather required the help of a scooter. the bill just passed 217-213 -- unclear if it would've covered chaffetz's costs -- but democrats could be heard chanting, "na na na na hey hey, goodbye" from the rafters after the vote. russian firms that have a controlling stake outside the country can no longer apply for state support, according to a new law signed by president putin on monday. this includes russian legal entities with more than 50 percent in authorized capital abroad. the law applies not only to the principals, but also to the beneficiaries, the individuals who will benefit from such transactions. read more it also prohibits the use of government subsidies to purchase foreign currency except for buying high-tech equipment, raw materials or components. however, if an offshore company promotes the export of russian products, it can still get government aid, as the real beneficiaries in such cases are domestic exporters. the new ruling comes after putin instructed the government to finalize the list of companies to be privatized. the president said privatization deals should be fully transparent with assets sold at realistic, not discount prices. he also said the state should retain control over strategic enterprises to prevent privatized assets leaving russian jurisdiction. last july, putin signed a law that prohibits government agencies procuring from offshore companies. the legislature is aimed at supporting domestic producers and creating additional incentives for import substitution, as well as returning money from offshores to the russian economy. the raven, the ultimate trickster, has become a cyborg. in this creative collab, shawn hunt moves away from engaging with the handmade; exploring authenticity and our expectations of what it means to be indigenous through the removal of the hand-carved surface. the work transformation mask, features microsoft hololens, creating an experiential sculpture piece that engages with mixed reality. in this work, the mask appropriates the traditional aspects of metamorphosis with the transformation from bird mask to human, yet in this adaptation the human mask has been altered, upgraded, and merged with the machine. incorporating aspects of technology, sound and space, each part of the work reflects hunt's interest in how we understand and identify with the term indigenous. this work presents a new trajectory for engagement and exploration of first nations practice; one that points towards technology and innovation as aspects that expand traditional practices and open new avenues for interpretation. new york police who killed an unarmed black man with 50 shots on his wedding day were careless and desperate to make an arrest because their vice unit was about to be disbanded, a prosecutor said on monday. two officers went on trial for manslaughter and a third for reckless endangerment in the death of sean bell, 23, who was killed in 2006 following a bachelor party at a strip club in a case generating outrage in much of new york's black community. civil rights activist al sharpton sat next to the fiance, nicole paultre, in a gallery packed with friends and relatives of the victim and police sympathetic to the defendants. protesters outside, many of whom wanted murder charges against the officers, held up signs numbered 1 to 50, chanting each number. an appeals court in cairo has overturned the conviction of four egyptian policemen over the deaths of 37 detainees last august. the deputy chief of heliopolis police station lt col amr farouk was given 10 years in march for involuntary manslaughter and extreme negligence. the other three officers were given one-year suspended sentences. the detainees were asphyxiated when tear gas was fired into the back of a vehicle taking them to prison. security officials initially said the detainees, allegedly islamist supporters of ousted president mohammed morsi, had rioted and captured a guard while en route to abu zabal prison on 18 august. officers said they were forced to respond by firing tear gas into the vehicle carrying 45 detainees. crowd-control experts said at the time that the detainees would have died in agony, gasping for air and incapable of resisting the guards. on saturday, the appeals court ordered the case to be transferred to the general prosecution for further investigation. the decision "means that the case is back to square one", human rights lawyer amr imam told afp news agency. the deaths sparked international condemnation, with un secretary general ban ki-moon saying he was "deeply disturbed" by the events. they took place four days after almost 1,000 people were killed when security forces cleared two sit-ins in cairo by supporters of president mohammed morsi, who was ousted by the military in july. thousands of islamists have since been detained, among them mr morsi and other senior leaders of the muslim brotherhood movement, who are being tried on a variety of charges including inciting murder and conspiring with foreign organisations to spread chaos throughout egypt. shortlisted, canadian regional design award met-a-mor-pho-sis: a complete change of form, structure, or substance, as transformation by magic or witchcraft. in may of 1896, a young magician from new york city joined the cast of the marco magic company and embarked on a summer-long tour of eastern canada, including new brunswick and nova scotia. it was during this excursion that handcuff harry aka harry houdini first showcased the talent that transformed him from a small-time conjurer, who performed for pennies in dime museums, into the world's most celebrated escape artist. when he wasn't performing on stage, houdini was barnstorming through the streets of every town and city he visited, astounding onlookers in police stations, hardware stores and hospitals by freeing himself from the clutches of every restraining device strapped or wrapped around him. in this absorbing book, enriched by rare, period photographs, bruce macnab recounts a fascinating but shockingly untold chapter in the career of the man whose name is still synonymous with the word magic. a study in monkeys offers the first evidence that a leading drug developed to fight ebola works against the strain causing the current outbreak in west africa. six animals were infected with a very high dose of the virus and then, three days later, half were given the drug, tkm-ebola-makona, which was designed specifically to fight the west african strain. the monkeys that received the drug survived, but all three untreated monkeys died, researchers reported on wednesday in the journal nature. tkm-ebola-makona is already being tested in ebola patients in sierra leone, but results are not yet available. an earlier version of the drug, created to treat a slightly different strain, was given to several ebola patients in the united states, but it was impossible to tell whether it helped them because they also received other treatments at the same time. the drugs are given intravenously and can cause flulike symptoms, including headaches, chills and fever. they belong to a category called short interfering rnas, or sirnas, which work by blocking certain genes in the virus, impairing its ability to replicate. the design of these drugs varies depending on the genetic sequence of the virus. but viruses can mutate, and new strains can evolve. researchers have wondered whether a drug made to treat one strain would also work against other strains of the same virus. microsoft had been expected to roll out two-factor authentication for its accounts, and the company officially announced its plans today. the software maker will roll out an upgrade to microsoft accounts over the coming days to enable an optional two-factor authentication service to improve account security. the service will protect an entire microsoft account using a verification process with codes. similar to google, microsoft will also let users use app passwords for services, like xbox, that don't currently directly support two-factor authentication. while microsoft has long supported additional authentication methods for access to certain parts of its accounts, this new two-factor authentication is being rolled out across the entire microsoft account. this means accounts will be fully protected, regardless of what type of data is being accessed. in the past, microsoft accounts would allow you to access a mailbox or other data without prompting for two-step verification. a windows phone app to support the service is already available and the app supports a standard protocol for two-step verification codes, meaning you can also use it for gmail and dropbox accounts. microsoft hasn't committed to an ios or android version just yet, but the company's web-based two-step system will support those particular devices. you can setup two-factor authentication over at microsoft's account management page. my mother-in-law always cooks great meals for us when we come to visit. she recently cooked a wonderful sweet potato soup that i thought would be great in a modernist preparation. i've roasted the sweet potatoes and added some molasses, ginger, and thyme for extra depth of flavor. once the soup is done you add it to your whipping siphon and foam it into the bowl. the foaming processes helps lighten the soup and give it a more airy texture than is expected. this sweet potato soup foam is also great as a hearty sauce on meats or vegetables. you can even use it as a dip at parties. if you like this recipe you can get it and more than 50 other recipes from my book modernist cooking made easy: the whipping siphon. the book covers the three main uses of the whipping siphon: foaming, carbonating, and infusing. it is all presented in an easy to understand format that anyone can follow. also, if you are just getting started experimenting with molecular gastronomy and modernist cuisine then i highly recommend one of these molecular gastronomy kits. they have everything you need to do many different dishes. just about anyone who has bought more than one aftermarket graphics card knows that bundled games rarely matter. they're usually year-old titles or neutered editions built only to showcase the gpu's performance for a few hours. amd thinks its never settle bundle might finally get us to notice. buy any modern radeon hd video card from the 7770 ghz edition on up and you'll get a download code for at least one new game you'd genuinely want to try, ranging from far cry 3 on basic cards to a full three-game deal that supplies far cry 3, hitman: absolution and sleeping dogs to high rollers buying the 7900 series. there's likewise a discount for medal of honor: warfighter and promises of bundles in 2013 for bioshock infinite and the reimagined tomb raider. as long as you're not dead set on springing for a geforce board in the next few months, one of the qualifying cards might be worth a look to jumpstart your game collection. an italian thief thanked police officers for arresting him and putting an end to a beating from korean tourists whom he had robbed in rome, police say. "i must thank you; they were massacring me," the 48-year-old criminal told police on monday after he was arrested near the theatre of marcellus, one of the monuments in rome's historic centre. the thief, from the northern region of liguria, stole a handbag from a korean family when they were not paying attention. he threatened the family with a knife when he was spotted and then tried to flee. two men from the family, in their 20s, chased him for several hundred metres before they got him down with taekwondo moves. they disarmed the thief and continued to beat him. a patrolling police officer intervened, separated the three and arrested the thief immediately. hangar 37, the new outer space themed free space themed hangar 37 dlc for infinite minigolf is now available! put on your space suits and prepare for landing in hangar 37 on the intergalactic spaceport in this sci-fi infinite minigolf adventure! meet a goofy team of aliens and robots who will help you complete four new and challenging courses, consisting of 108 brand new minigolf holes. now available for playstation 4, xbox one, steam and the nintendo switch, hangar 37 tests your skills in four new tournaments designed by friendly aliens like fred and brave astronauts like nova. try out the number of courses included, or enjoy even more course building options as you place gadgets and build up your version of a futuristic course to share with the infinite minigolf community. share your best designs with the community and join a library of more than 15,000 courses! spring came to still-frosty berlin this week courtesy of george clooney, who had ice cleared from sidewalks and added green trees to the landscape for the filming of the monuments men, set in the waning days of the second world war. the film is inspired by the true story of a us military unit comprising seven museum directors, curators and art historians sent into germany with the mission of rescuing art works plundered by the nazis. clooney, who is both acting and directing, put together a cast that includes matt damon, cate blanchett, bill murray, jean dujardin, bob balaban, hugh bonneville and john goodman. shooting got under way two weeks ago in berlin and nearby potsdam, starting with interior scenes. although the bush administration is moving to shut down a pipeline that provided iraqi oil to syria illegally, the united states and american oil companies have long imported syrian oil, more of which became available after the pipeline opened about three years ago, oil industry experts here said today. industry experts and oil traders said that about a week ago syria told buyers of its oil that exports would decrease by 200,000 barrels a day for the rest of the year, indicating that it knew the pipeline would be closed or that it had been closed already. those experts and united nations diplomats said that the pipeline, which carried 150,000 to 250,000 barrels a day, was an open secret in the industry and the united nations security council. council members' attempts to get an explanation from syria were blocked by russia, france and china, a united nations diplomat said, and by syria itself when it became a council member. both syria and iraq benefited enormously from the pipeline, said fadhil j. chalabi, a former acting secretary general of opec from iraq and now executive director of the center for global energy studies in london, a research and consulting concern. ''saddam got cash outside the united nations fund,'' he said. advertisement continue reading the main story the announcement of the american plans came on tuesday, when defense secretary donald h. rumsfeld said that the united states was about to cut off the pipeline, signaling the administration's willingness to pressure syria. on monday, the united states called syria a ''rogue state'' after accusing it of harboring iraqi fugitives and developing chemical weapons. starting september 1, an entire county will be smoke free -- including e-cigarettes. all outdoor property, including parking lots and vehicles will be off limits to smokers. sagadahoc county is following cumberland county by banning all tobacco products including e-cigarettes. this new rule has been put in place in hopes it will cause more people to quit. those in favor of the ban say it will reduce street litter as well as the harm done to those who do not smoke or wish to be around it. those opposed to the efforts point out air is free, and you don't have to share air with a smoker if you don't want to. most agree with the ban on indoor smoking but are discouraged with new regulations of the outdoor areas. in addition to cutting down where people can smoke, the county is doing more to help their employees quit as well. the myths told by the greeks and romans are as important as their history for our understanding of what they believed, thought and felt, and of what they expressed in writing and visual art. mythology was inextricably interwoven with the entire fabric of their public and private lives. this book discusses not only the purely fictional myths, fairy-tales and folk-tales but the sagas and legends which have some historical grounding. this is not a dictionary of stories, rather a personal selection of the most important and memorable. michael grant re-tells these marvellous tales, and then explores the different ways in which they have appeared throughout literature. it is an inspiring study, filled with quotations from literary sources, which gives the reader a fascinating exposition of ancient culture as well as an understanding of how vital the classical world has been in shaping the western culture of today. my commitment to our fans is to put the best possible product on the field each year. no one is satisfied with an 8-8 record, but i am very pleased with the direction of our team under the leadership of dan quinn and confident in his long-term approach. no question, we took some positive steps forward this year and have a good foundation our existing coaching staff can build upon. over the last week, we have conducted an exhaustive review of every area of our team. through this process it has become very clear to me that coach quinn and thomas dimitroff have built a productive working relationship over the last 11 months. there is very good alignment between dan and thomas on the direction we need to go to improve our team and i believe maintaining the continuity of that relationship, with scott pioli continuing to assist thomas, is the right way forward. we are going to make a number of changes to our pro personnel and college scouting departments and that process began this week. it will take some time, but we will be adding talent on the pro personnel side and re-organizing both of these groups to best align with the shared vision of coach quinn and thomas dimitroff. i expect these changes will produce positive results for our team. there are 3 versions of this paper date written: august 10, 2017 abstract counterproductive reactions to unfavorable trading prices can cause inefficiencies in economic exchange. this paper studies whether the use of a competitive pricing mechanism reduces such wasteful activities. we report data from a laboratory experiment where a powerful buyer can trade with one of two sellers - an environment that can lead to very low prices for the sellers. we find that low procurement prices trigger significantly less punishment by sellers if the buyer uses a competitive auction rather than his price-setting power to dictate the same terms of trade directly. our data suggest that the use of competitive pricing mechanisms can mitigate inefficient reactions to unequal distributions of trade surplus. while aereo was shut down for reselling ota tv service over the web, airtv shouldn't pose any problem for sling tv. you're relying on your own antenna, after all -- the box simply streams a signal that's legally accessible to any private consumer. it's unclear how the ota channels will integrate into sling tv's channel guide, but hopefully they won't seem too out of place. sling tv previously bundled ota antennas with its service, with the hope that customers would access local channels outside of the sling app. the airtv box is the logical next step, giving you a way to view those channels anywhere you can access sling tv. sources tell zats not funny that the company is working on several new devices. it looks like the airtv can only capture and spit tv signals over the internet, so it's not hard to imagine another box that can also be plugged into a tv and serve as a standalone sling tv solution. while sling won't have to worry about licensing channels with airtv, its mere existence may cause some friction with its broadcast network relationships. and of course, ota reception varies wildly depending on where you live and the quality of your antenna. airtv likely won't be as easy to set up as aereo, but it might just be what many cord cutters need. the former club captain is expected to sign for the danish superliga side. perry kitchen played in hearts' pre-season win over livingston. sns former hearts captain perry kitchen is heading to denmark ahead of signing talks with superliga side randers. kitchen, 25, flew out from hearts' summer training camp in dublin on wednesday afternoon to enter advanced talks with the danes. stv understands no fee would be involved, and a deal could be completed by wednesday evening. the united states international fell out of favour under ian cathro last season, not making it off the bench for eight games since february. his captaincy was handed to new signing christophe berra, who returned to the club at the start of the summer. kitchen has made 45 appearances for the tynecastle side since signing in march 2016 when robbie neilson was in charge. he joined hearts from mls side dc united, where he made 167 league and cup appearances over five seasons for the black and red, scoring ten goals. randers finished seventh in the danish league last season and begin their new campaign with an away trip against sonderjyske. prime minister gordon brown's new website has been hit by teething troubles, downing street has confirmed. number 10 tv was officially launched as part of mr brown's efforts to reach out to a wider public. the site will feature exclusive video coverage of the prime minister's speeches and media appearances. but anyone trying to access it was met with a "404 page not found" error message. a downing street spokeswoman denied the site had crashed. but she said users on some servers might experience glitches "for the next 48 hours". "it is just what happens when you launch a new website," she added. number 10 tv is part of a redesigned downing street website, which includes news, guided tours of number 10 and official reports. downing street says the revamp is designed to "boost the amount of video content". it comes two years after conservative leader david cameron launched his own website, webcameron, which regularly features behind-the-scenes content. in may mr brown launched an online version of prime minister's questions. he pledged to respond to video-clip questions submitted via the downing street youtube website. metairie-- we all know that our lovely little city is plagued by the curse of the potholes, but ever wonder why there seem to be so many on the streets and not on the ever-expanding bike paths? we did some digging and found at that the roads and paths are all made of the same material. the roads and bike paths are made of either asphalt, concrete, or a combination of both. "most of the bike lanes that we've installed are on streets that we've resurfaced," explained mike jernigan, director of public works for the city of new orleans. the reason behind those pesky, car damaging potholes is the foundation and what's going on below the surface. our city is 299 years old, after all, so there's bound to be some stuff going on down below that we don't know about. "gas lines, water lines etc, if one of those has a malfunction, then it causes a crack in the surface of the road, which ultimately leads to potholes," said jernigan. so, no, the bike paths do not get special attention. however, traffic and weight of vehicles do have a role in the condition of the street. a broadband red filter placed over one eye will have the effect of improving the ability of certain color vision defectives to name colors correctly. a red-tinted contact lens will have the same effect; such a device is marketed under the name, the x-chrom lens. in this article, the author examines the basic properties of color vision defects, explains the optical effect of the red filter, and reviews several studies which evaluate the effect of the x-chrom lens. he concludes that while the lens may allow the wearer to achieve a better score on certain color vision tests, it does not actually correct color vision in the natural environment. deleterious effects of wearing a red filter are also discussed. it is advised that patients wearing the x-chrom lens be fully apprised of its limitations and of dangers that may be created by the associated visual distortions. candid personal photos of facebook founder mark zuckerberg have appeared on the web following a facebook privacy overhaul that critics warned would lead people to share more of their private lives publicly than ever before. the shots of zuckerberg, some of which show the 25-year-old apparently inebriated and cuddling a teddy bear, reveal a different side of the brainy geek who has rapidly risen from bumbling college student to a captain of the web industry. it follows claims in a controversial new book, the accidental billionaires, that zuckerberg started the social networking site as a way to pick up women and that he dined on a koala on the yacht of a sun microsystems executive. facebook announced an overhaul of its privacy controls last week, forcing all users to assess who is able to see each piece of content they publish on the site. mangled butts have been turning up all over nlsscirclejerk and the inhabitants are scared. ten murders in ten weeks, all committed with a mom's knife, and still nobody has a clue who the salty killer is. ryan 'northernlion' letourneau is a scummy and shrek-like private detective with a fondness for donkeh. he doesn't know it yet but he is the only one who can stop the scum killer. when his husband, josh smith, is kidnapped, ryan letourneau finds himself thrown into the centre of the investigation. his only clue is a dank xbox controller for fps on pc. he enlists the help of a cute fishmonger called 'rockleesmile' reineke. can reineke help letourneau overcome his dota 2 addiction and find the answers before the mad because he's bad killer and his deadly mom's knife strike again? the us military has carried out air strikes using fighter jets and drones against the islamic state militants near kurdish capital irbil, aimed at assisting kurdish forces to liberate iraq's largest dam from jihadists. american fighter jets and drones successfully conducted airstrikes near irbil and the mosul dam, targeting militants, the pentagon said yesterday. these strikes were carried out under the authority to support humanitarian efforts in iraq, as well as to protect us personnel and facilities, it added. "the nine airstrikes conducted thus far destroyed or damaged four armored personnel carriers, seven armed vehicles, two humvees and an armored vehicle," the us central command said, adding that all aircraft exited the strike areas safely. the islamic state militants captured mosul dam, in northern iraq on the tigris river, earlier this month. the dam provides electricity to much of the region, and is crucial to irrigation in farming areas in nineveh province. the recapture of the dam would be one of the most significant achievements of iraqi forces in fight against the militants. abu dhabi: the ministry of labour has announced that tuesday, december 2, will be a paid holiday for private sector workers on the occasion of the uae national day. the order was announced in a circular by saqr gobash, the uae minister of labour, according to the official news agency wam. the country marks the 43rd anniversary of its founding with nation-wide festivities and a non-working holiday. gobash extended his heartfelt congratulations to president his highness shaikh khalifa bin zayed al nahyan, his highness shaikh mohammad bin rashid al maktoum, vice-president and prime minister of the uae and ruler of dubai, and their highnesses supreme council members and rulers of the emirates, and people of the uae on the occasion. public sector workers will get a longer holiday. former queensland premier peter beattie and leading constitutional lawyer megan davis have been named as australian rugby league commissioners, joining the group effective immediately. the duo will sit under current chairman john grant before he ends his tenure in february, ensuring they have input into the collective bargaining agreement, club funding, constitutional reform and other key issues still waiting for resolutions. "i have no doubt these appointments will give the commission additional expertise and insight as it looks to capitalise on the foundations that have been put in place over the last six years," grant said in a statement on tuesday. both are heavyweight additions to the rugby league table, with davis bringing a wealth of legal and constitutional expertise. beattie, currently the chairman of the organising committee of the gold coast commonwealth games, was the queensland premier from 1998-2007 before taking on a variety of roles in his political retirement. the afl has banned the glove that collingwood key forward travis cloke wore in his dramatic return to form. the magpies have taken the glove to the league, which has ruled it is not allowed under their guidelines. the breach is not seen as serious and it is unclear whether cloke will face any punishment. cloke kicked four goals in the upset win over gws last weekend and took 12 marks - five of them contested. it was his best performance this season and came after he struggled to hold his place in the senior team. cloke wore the glove to protect two swollen fingers on his right hand. he first wore it the week before in the win over carlton. this is understood to be the first time for about a year that cloke has worn a glove while playing. as astronomical house prices shatter the home ownership dreams of many sydneysiders, government research has found the equivalent of 20 years of housing supply is tied up in empty bedrooms. over half a million homes, most of which are occupied by "empty nester" older couples or singles in their 50s or older, had at least two empty bedrooms, according to a study by the department of planning and environment. the research highlighted the potential benefit to the city's housing supply if some homeowners chose to live in smaller dwellings, allowing young families to fill the larger houses. but efforts to encourage this shift were thwarted by a lack of alternative options, planning minister rob stokes said. "our households are more diverse than ever, so logically our housing options need to match that," said mr stokes. pakistan's role in sending armed terrorists to india stands exposed once again and this time with major embarrassment for it. for the first time pakistan was forced to accept bodies of slain armed infiltrators killed by indian forces. up till now, pakistan had never accepted that the infiltrators killed by indian troops were pakistani citizens. on thursday, pakistan pak rangers were handed over the dead bodies of pakistani intruders on borders of ajnala in amritsar, these intruders were identified as pakistani citizens. mortal remains of killed intruders were handed over to pak rangers by bsf on humanitarian grounds. in the intervening night of 19-20 september, vigilant bsf troops foiled an armed infiltration bid across international boundary in ajnala sector near amritsar and killed two intruders. huge cache of arms and ammunition was recovered from the slain terrorists. cam newton will commence throwing next week for the first time since undergoing shoulder surgery in march. carolina panthers coach ron rivera said monday he anticipates newton throwing on the side with head athletic trainer ryan vermillion at minicamp next week, via max henson of the team's official website. the timeline puts newton on pace in his recovery. when the quarterback underwent surgery in late march, vermillion noted newton would toss on the side after 12 weeks, throw with the team 16 weeks after surgery and be ready for training camp in july. tossing on the side with the trainer is a baby step in the process, but it's a positive development to a team revamping its offense with rookie playmakers christian mccaffrey and curtis samuel. assuming newton doesn't suffer a setback this summer, he'll be ready for training camp, which should give him time to build a rapport with his new weapons before the season opens. public servants at the australian war memorial in canberra have also voted to reject a new pay and conditions deal, while an agreement has got over the line at the australian fisheries management authority. aboriginal hostels' main workplace union, the cpsu, said the result was the right reaction to the "pathetic" offer. "this overwhelming rejection by ahl workers shows what a pathetic offer management had put on the table, framed by the turnbull government's failed public sector bargaining policy, even compared with the dud deals that have been voted down easily in other commonwealth agencies," cpsu deputy secretary beth vincent-pietsch said. "ahl staff play an essential role in efforts to close the gap for indigenous australians, providing a critical link for aboriginal and torres strait islander people to access services that most australians take for granted. "this offer would have actually widened that gap, providing a measly pay offer in an organisation that has the highest percentage of indigenous staff of any public-sector agency. scientists in sydney have discovered a way to stimulate the brain's own stem cells, which has the potential to lead to a new treatment for neurological disorders such as parkinson's and alzheimer's disease. bryce vissel and andrea abdipranoto at the garvan institute of medical research identified a chemical, called activin a, that is essential for the brain's own stem cells to form new nerve cells, and to repair the brain, following neurodegeneration. using a mouse model, the researchers showed that, following acute nerve cell damage, the brain immediately acts to repair itself by replacing the damaged nerve cells with new cells. the researchers then showed that the brain does this by releasing activin a. but when the chemical was blocked, regeneration stopped. after five years of laboratory testing, the researchers made the surprising finding that activin a has an essential but indirect role in regeneration: it works by inhibiting the replication and activation of inflammatory cells. windows maps is built into windows 10 and windows 10 mobile. powered by bing and here mapping technologies, windows maps provides directions, rich mapping data of the entire world, and even 3d aerial views. windows maps also allows you to sync favorite places and use them with cortana, who in turn lets you refer to places simply as "home" and "work" and so on while using her locational commands. additionally, windows maps is now available on the xbox one preview thanks to the summer update, and here's how it works on the console. windows maps has all the same features that it does on pc and windows 10 mobile. favorite locations sync using your microsoft account, you can search for directions, browse 3d maps and discover rich information about places all over the world. windows maps doesn't utilize a mouse-like cursor seen in apps like baconit and cast. instead, its controls are mapped directly to the xbox one controller and handle fairly similarly to browsing the map screen of an open world video game. the left joystick moves your position, and the right joystick controls the tilt and rotation of the map. 'a' is your left click, 'y' is a global search key, and 'b' is your back button. the triggers zoom and the view button cycles between map controls and windows maps' more complex user interface elements. two men threatened to shoot customers at an ohio wal-mart on saturday, the port clinton news herald reported. a wal-mart employee told police that she was told that two men entered the store and said they would shoot patrons because they were unable to buy a gun. according to the police report, another store employee said that the two men tried to start a bank account. the bank manager said that one of the men was intoxicated. the man became very angry and was asked to leave. the manager told police he was unaware of any shooting threats. the man was then banned from the wal-mart, according to the news herald. the other man went to the automotive department to get an oil change. an employee in that department did not hear any shooting threats, according to the police report. you could call it the mystery of the disappearing productivity crisis. last week's national accounts for the december quarter confirmed that, if we ever really had an underlying problem with weak productivity improvement, we don't have one now. by now, that's not such a mystery. no, the puzzle is why the people who made so much noise about the supposed productivity crisis show little sign of having noticed its evaporation. for months we had big business arguing the seemingly weak rate of improvement in the productivity of labour during the noughties needed to be corrected by restoring the howard government's workchoices biasing of industrial relations law in favour of employers. some even went so far as to claim it was labor's fair work changes that caused the weak productivity improvement. another line we kept hearing was that a big cut in the rate of company tax was needed to get productivity up. no one prosecuted this campaign more enthusiastically than the national dailies; they were always fretting about productivity. yet in their extensive reporting of the national accounts, neither found space to note what those accounts told us about such a crucial issue. even the media's exaggerated preference for bad news over good isn't sufficient to explain that omission. call me cynical, but it makes me suspect all the tears shed over productivity were little more than cover for an exercise in big-business rent-seeking. shift the rules in my favour and it'll do wonders for the economy. cristiano ronaldo suffers a partly torn mcl that could keep him out up to four or five months, according to the first explorations by the portuguese doctors in france. if that first medical report is confirmed, ronaldo will miss the uefa supercup for madrid and also the first few matches in the 2016-17 liga bbva season. the portuguese star did not visit any hospital after leaving the match though, so he still needs to run some tests on that left knee to confirm how severe his injury is. ronaldo was forced to leave the final after an aggressive tackle by dimitri payet in the opening minutes of the game. he tried to stay on the pitch but then realized that his knee was bothering him way too much. portugal managed to win the trophy without their captain and ronaldo had more than enough reasons to celebrate their victory. he will have time to worry about his knee in the upcoming days. i didn't have any real project in mind for this board, so i just picked fun features as i went along. i decided i should make the board smaller, smaller is always better. pad only usb a plugs are cool. i also perforated it in case i wanted to get rid of it once it is programmed. adding a battery also seemed like a good idea. we have 2032 snaps, and this gives it some versatility if i come up with a project that requires it on the next rev. through hole headers didn't make sense to me. this isn't going on a breadboard any time soon, so i just made pads go to the edge and turned off the holes in my cam step. totally lazy, but it really is a one off, and i didn't feel like taking more than an hour to work on it. i really enjoy the zen of routing single sided boards, so i used a couple of 1206 zero ohm resistors and ran 6 mil traces. the battery on the back stopped me from dropping vias altogether, so i made them 1mm drills and avoided a toolchange on the pcb plotter. two soldiers and an eight-year-old boy have been killed in an explosion in north-eastern colombia. military officials said the explosives were planted by colombia's largest left-wing rebel group, the farc. three soldiers were also injured in the attack near the town of tame. colombian defence minister juan carlos pinzon said the security situation in colombia had deteriorated over the past few months, but that the government was meeting the threat head on. the explosion happened in the same area where nine employees from an oil company were abducted on wednesday. it is not clear who kidnapped the workers as a number of illegal groups are active in arauca province, where tame is located. the farc rebel group announced last sunday that it would abandon kidnappings for ransom. but a smaller left-wing rebel group, the eln, and a number of drug gangs continue to abduct people in the region. last year, a 10-year-old girl was abducted on her way to school, also in arauca province. she was held for 18 days before her kidnappers, suspected of belonging to the farc, released her after negotiations led by the international red cross. the marxist-inspired farc has been active since the early 1960s. it has been severely weakened by military offensives and the killing of two of its top leaders, but remains capable of carrying out attacks, in part due to cash raised through its involvement in the illegal drugs trade. the supreme court says it will decide whether same-sex couples nationwide have a right to marry under the constitution. the justices said friday they will review an appellate ruling that upheld bans on same-sex unions in four states. the case will be argued in april and a decision is expected by late june. kentucky, michigan, ohio and tennessee are among the 14 states where gay and lesbian couples are not allowed to marry. the number of states that permit same-sex marriage has nearly doubled in three months as a result of federal and state court rulings. the justices' decision to turn away same-sex marriage appeals in october allowed some of those rulings to take effect. florida last week became the 36th state to issue marriage licenses to same-sex couples. do you crave sour gummy candies? using some simple store-bought ingredients, it is easy to make these sweet treats at home. these mouth-puckering gummy candies can be made in any flavor you desire, but it's best to try to match complimentary jell-o and kool-aid flavors and colors. the kool-aid can be increased to a full package if an extra sour flavor is desired. to make a sugar-free candy, substitute sugar-free jell-o. another benefit of making your own sour gummy candies is that you can experiment with all kinds of fun shapes. you can use any kinds of candy molds to make the gummies in different shapes. candy molds can be found in most craft or baking stores, or online. if you don't have candy molds, don't fret! you can simply make the sour gummy candies in a pan and then cut them into squares or your desired shape. another option is to make them in ice cube trays or any other silicone mold you may have around the house. sony took a bit of flack over the christmas break when its playstation network was hit by a devastating denial-of-service attack. it took a few days for the gaming service to recover from lizard squad's assault and, to make up for the festive downtime, sony is now rewarding its players with a five-day psn extension and a one-time 10 percent psn store discount. today, we've finally got the all-important uk code: t6r3kb529k. it's valid until 9am on january 26th and can be applied to the total value of your ps3 or ps4 basket. there are a few exceptions, however. sony says the code won't work for video rentals, game pre-orders, ps plus and music unlimited subscriptions -- that's quite a list, but at least you can buy some digital games to tide you over until evolve's release next month. oh, and if you live outside of the uk, head to the source below for all of sony's other codes. researchers have also put fermi to work spotting gamma ray bursts that originated on the far side of the sun. while teams have detected the solar flares that cause these bursts before, scientists finally have imaging that connects the dots -- nasa's stereo satellites caught ultraviolet imagery of the flares that lines up with the gamma rays erupting from the other side. for this to happen, the particles had to travel about 300,000 miles within 5 minutes, or 1,000 miles per second. both findings promise to widen our knowledge of the cosmos. the blazars by their existence may force scientists to rethink how black holes form. how could supermassive black holes come to be so soon into the universe's existence? the solar flares, meanwhile, help paint a clearer picture of solar activity than we've had so far. fermi isn't a do-it-all tool by any means, but it has accomplished a lot in the several years since its 2008 launch. reuters photographer goran tomasevic returned to syria earlier this month, where he has been traveling the war-torn streets of damascus with the free syrian army. his past 24 hours were especially harrowing, as he accompanied an fsa group on an attack mission. tomasevic captured the scene as one rebel was shot and killed in front of him by a government sniper. just an hour later, he managed to keep taking photos as a tank shell slammed into a wall just above him and a group of fighters, sending chunks of plaster and concrete onto their heads. these images bring home with power and immediacy the frightening reality of syria's urban warfare -- this all happened just yesterday -- but they offer just a few glimpses of this long, bloody uprising. arsenal striker nicklas bendtner is determined to improve his own personal fortunes. nicklas bendtner may have had a surprisingly good end to 2013, reclaiming a place in the arsenal side, but his 2014 has been near calamitous. it started healthily enough, with an important goal on new year's day against cardiff city, but after being injured while finding the net, his career has taken a backward step. he recovered to find young striker yaya sanogo was ahead of him in the pecking order, and even chosen to start a crucial champions league game despite never scoring for the gunners. bendtner then got into trouble with manager arsene wenger for making an unauthorised trip to denmark, during which he made the headlines for all the wrong reasons. while the gunners were losing 3-0 to everton at the weekend, bendtner was nowhere to be seen, later tweeting that he had been undergoing treatment on another injury. he is however stepping up his comeback, revealing on his instagram page yesterday that he had spent eight hours training on his own in an effort to get back to top shape, posting the accompanying message: "8 hours training done. hard work and dedication" whether bendtner even plays again this season for the gunners remains to be seen. only five league games remain, plus an fa cup semi-final and potentially a final. he has played just six minutes since new years day, a cameo appearance against crystal palace in january, but arsene wenger has shown in the past he is now afraid to spring a surprise if he feels it necessary. apart from rescuing the club from their malaise, the dane has every personal motivation to get fit. despite not having a world cup to look forward to as denmark failed to qualify, bendtner is out of contract in the summer and will need to be a full fitness to persuade teams to take him on as a free agent. fourteen people were killed after a blast on a metro train in the russian city of st petersburg. moscow: russia's state investigative committee on tuesday named akbarzhon jalilov as the man behind the st petersburg metro blast, confirming an earlier statement from kyrgyzstan's security services. the committee said in a statement its investigation had identified kyrgyz-born jalilov, whose genetic traces were also found on a bag containing an explosive device. advertisement "from the genetic evidence and the surveillance cameras there is reason to believe that the person behind the terrorist act in the train carriage, was the same one who left a bag with an explosive device at the ploshchad vosstaniya station," the statement added. investigators gave no further details on djalilov but his name and year of birth coincided with a statement from the kyrgyz security services which said earlier tuesday that he was a naturalised russian citizen originally from kyrgyzstan. investigators said earlier that remains of the carriage bomber were found at the scene of the blast, but it was not clear if he is included in the official toll of the attack. kyrgyzstan, a predominantly muslim central asian nation of six million, is russia's close political ally and hosts a russian military airbase. advertisement advertisement fourteen people were killed and dozens more injured after a blast in a st petersburg train carriage on monday. a few weeks ago, paris saint-germain had to deal with the controversy surrounding the fall out between neymar and edinson cavani, and now it seems that the brazilian is at odds with his coach, unai emery. after a light training session in the wake of their champions league game, neymar wanted to continue, with particular emphasis on specific ball work with some reserve team players. it was a request that emery flatly refused. according to l'equipe, the player angrily kicked a ball against the wall in front of emery and his teammates before heading into the dressing room area. in france, speculation is rife that the rift between resulting from the misunderstanding has completely disrupted psg's preparations for the game against marseille. a court has paved the way for a public servant who criticised the government on twitter to be sacked, even though she did not reveal her name or her job to her readers. in a decision likely to curtail bureaucrats' use of social media, federal circuit court judge warwick neville rejected michaela banerji's application for a stay on her dismissal. michaela banerji was told last year she would be sacked after she criticised her department via an anonymous twitter account. credit:jay cronan the case is linked to one of the government's most prolific official tweeters, immigration department spokesman sandi logan, who heads the communications team in which ms banerji worked. ms banerji had accused mr logan of bullying her, and argued the department's decision to discipline her over her twitter comments was a retaliation against her complaint. do you want to help bring one of the most effective animal organizations in the world to your campus? consider applying to be a campus organizer in our expanding campus outreach program and join the best team advocating for the humane treatment of farmed animals! the humane league's campus outreach program trained students at 30 schools nationwide last semester, empowering them to educate the masses on plant-based lifestyles and factory farming. our campus organizers have dedicated their time to enlightening and inspiring others to consider a plant-based lifestyle while encouraging meat reduction through leafletting, delivering presentations, developing veg clubs and much more. in the humane league's new campus outreach video, students share that the humane league has not only improved veg-friendly options on their campuses, but it has also pushed them out of their comfort zones to ultimately become better activists. campus organizer positions are an excellent introduction to professional animal advocacy, and students in this position will gain significant insight into the animal protection movement. organizers acquire experience in activism through a wide range of responsibilities, include gathering meatless monday pledges, distributing vegetarian starter guides, hosting on-campus community events, writing op-eds for the campus paper, and more. we are actively recruiting and training the next generation of effective animal advocates on college campuses across the country! if you would like to join the humane league as a campus organizer intern, please apply here. it is through the donations from our dedicated supporters that we are able to continue to grow this program, so please consider making a contribution today. ever since they won a small majority in 2015, the conservatives have struggled to pass further austerity measures. they were forced to abandon planned cuts to tax credits and disability benefits. philip hammond dropped the proposed increase in national insurance on the self-employed just a week after the budget. with parliament newly hung, austerity will all but end. the dup, who the conservatives will depend on for their majority, have long opposed aggressive spending cuts. their manifesto called for the abolition of the "bedroom tax" and the maintenance of universal pensioner benefits and the state pension "triple lock". many tory mps are fiscal nimbys, who subscribe to austerity in theory but not in practice. a significant number are resolutely opposed to any measures that further reduce their constituents' living standards. the damage inflicted on the conservatives last night will be hailed as a vindication of this stance. further cuts create too many losers for comfort. after seven years, britain has lost patience with austerity. may's cold insistence to a nurse that there was no "magic money tree" to end the public sector pay cap exemplified the tories' predicament. having deferred george osborne's budget surplus target to 2025, much of the impetus behind austerity has already been lost. an ultra-fragile majority, brexit and the economic downturn will combine to halt it altogether. san antonio swingman danny green earned a call-up from the d-league to the nba this past season. rather than waiting out the nba lockout, however, green has signed with euroleague team union olimpija as he tries to avoid the uncertainly of having to go through that process again. green's contract with the spurs included a non-guaranteed option with the team for the 2011-12 season, but with the lockout firmly in place -- and no end in sight -- the former second round pick has decided to sign with the euroleague team in slovenia for the upcoming season. the former north carolina star has played in 28 nba games in a professional career that has so far seen him suit up for the spurs and cleveland cavaliers along with the d-league's erie bayhawks, austin toros and reno bighorns. with union olimpija, green will play with fellow tarheel deon thompson as well as former nba player damir markota and ben woodside, a standout point guard from north dakota state university. green represents the ninth nba player to sign in the euroleague so far this offseason. finding a blurry image of yourself on google maps street view is one of the great postmodern thrills of our current era. if you've ever spotted yourself on the site, you've probably been carrying groceries or walking your dog. but if you're flaming lips frontman wayne coyne, nme reports that evidently you can find yourself on the site, taking a bath outside next to a banner that says "blob in the bath". if anyone still thought coyne's whole freak-prophet image was an act, this is pretty definitive proof that they're wrong. nme's evidence that the fuzzy figure on oklahoma city's gatewood avenue is indeed coyne himself? apparently, coyne and his wife set up the bath for a 2007 halloween party, then posted pictures and video of it on the band's myspace page. coyne's neighbors must just love him. in its upgraded return to home mode, the phantom 4 pro can automatically choose the best route to return home depending on environmental conditions. it records its route as it flies, allowing it to return along the same route avoiding obstacles if the control signal is disconnected. based on its altitude at the time of disconnection, the phantom 4 pro is also able to adjust its flight path to avoid obstacles it has seen during its flight. at takeoff, the phantom 4 pro will record the scene below and compare its recording with what it sees as it returns, for more precise landing. it can also detect the ground to see whether there is suitable spot for landing. if any obstacles are found, or there is water on the ground, it will alert the pilot and hover at an appropriate height, helping the aircraft to land more safely. note: this wiki is very new, please help by adding content. prismata is an easy-to-learn, fast-paced hybrid strategy game that borrows familiar elements from real-time strategy games, collectible card games, and tabletop strategy games, combining them in a radical new way. think "turn-based starcraft", but without a map. or, think of hearthstone with workers and build orders instead of decks. in prismata, players take turns spending their resources, building up their economies, constructing an army, and obliterating one another until only one side remains. games last only minutes, but always feel fresh thanks to randomly-generated unit pools that are different every time. each game, there are new units to construct, new build orders to plan and discover, and new threats to respond to. featuring simple and elegant economic and combat mechanics, prismata rewards tactical, strategic, and decisive play. will you execute a perfectly-timed rush? or will you build up a monstrous economy and steamroll your opponent with a massive army? maybe you'll change your plans entirely when you see what your opponent has in mind! darwin, the monkey that escaped in an ikea car park in toronto, canada, last december, will not return to its owner. ontario judge mary vallee has ruled that under canadian law darwin is a wild animal, and a sanctuary should keep the japanese macaque. his owner, yasmin nakhuda, had sued, arguing that animal services tricked her into surrendering the pet. images of the animal, who was wearing a little shearling coat and nappy, became an internet sensation. monkeys like darwin are illegal to own in canada, and in friday's ruling, judge vallee said concerns about disease were a valid reason for detaining the animal. the judge found ms nakhuda had been "upset, but was not unduly influenced" when she signed the form consenting for darwin to be transferred to the story book farm primate sanctuary in sunderland, ontario. ms nakhuda said the animal, which escaped from her car, had been part of her family and was always by her side, even when she slept and showered. "at the beginning, i was told that was the best for him because generally, monkeys live off the back of the mom," she said in december, adding the monkey would "get into a panic attack" when she was out of sight. by football italia staff rudi garcia will be on the bench for roma-milan after his ban was suspended, while jose holebas saw his ban revoked. the pair had been involved in an altercation in the tunnel after a fiery end to their 1-0 victory over genoa last week. a steward at marassi had accused garcia of attempting to physically attack him, but today partially retracted his statement via a letter sent by genoa. the disciplinary committee therefore accepted the incident needs to be examined in more detail and suspended the two-game touchline ban. meanwhile, holebas saw his one-match ban revoked entirely on appeal. that means he will be able to play tomorrow night against milan. genoa's appeal against a three-round ban for striker diego perotti has been rejected. okay, so we've done some digging into the riaa's lawsuit against jeffery howell, in which the industry is claiming that ripped mp3s are "unauthorized copies," and it turns out that jeffery isn't actually being sued for ripping cds, like the washington post and several other sources have reported, but for plain old illegal downloading. as we're all unfortunately aware, that's pretty standard stuff; the big change from previous downloading cases is the riaa's newfound aggressiveness in calling mp3s ripped from legally owned cds "unauthorized copies" -- something it's been doing quietly for a while, but now it looks like the gloves are off. while there's a pretty good argument for the legality of ripping under the market factor of fair use, it's never actually been ruled as such by a judge -- so paradoxically, the riaa might be shooting itself in the foot here, because a judge wouldn't ever rule on it unless they argue that it's illegal. looks like someone may end up being too clever for their own good, eh? ten soldiers have been killed in a government air strike in the embattled city of marawi in the philippines. eight soldiers were also wounded in the "friendly fire" incident on wednesday, said defence secretary delfin lorenzana, expressing remorse. over the last week militants allied to the so-called islamic state have engaged in street battles with the army leaving more than 100 people dead. it was sparked by the attempted capture of a top militant leader by the army. "yesterday we had a tragedy that involved our troops. a group of our military, army men, were hit by our own airstrike. we lost men, 10 killed and 8 wounded," mr lorenzana told reporters. president rodrigo duterte declared martial law on southern mindanao island, where marawi city is located, last week. security forces launched a raid to arrest isnilon hapilon - a filipino militant on the us's list of most-wanted terror suspects. authorities said dozens of fighters fought back to protect him, and then attacked parts of the city with a population of 200,000, taking hostages. the philippines military has since been using armed forces and helicopter airstrikes to try and drive the militants out. most of the civilians have left marawi, while about 2,000 remain trapped. defence minister lorenzana told reporters on thursday that among the militants that have been killed there were fighters from at least five other nationalities including saudi, yemeni and chechen, according to reuters. russia's parliament will rush through a constitutional amendment that could see vladimir putin return to the presidency within weeks. amid growing signs of panic in the kremlin, the state duma said it would meet today to pass legislation that could allow mr putin to return to the top job for 12 years. giving short shrift to russia's 1993 constitution, all three readings of the bill will be compressed into a single sitting, rather than dragged out over weeks or months as convention dictates. the proposal to extend the time a president can serve from two consecutive terms of four years to two consecutive terms of six was made by dmitry medvedev, the russian leader, just last week. existing constitutional restrictions forced mr putin to stand down in may after completing two consecutive four-year terms. he did not go far, however, changing jobs to become prime minister. to free up additional patrol officers, chicago police superintendent garry mccarthy has instructed officers not to respond to lesser crimes such as vehicle theft, garage burglary, or crime where the offender is no longer at the scene. the move will free up 44 officers per day to respond to more serious offenses. the 911 calls are being transferred to the chicago pd's alternate response section, staffed by officers on light duty. police reports will be taken over the phone. if necessary, evidence technicians will be assigned later, reports the chicago sun-times. the chicago police department is also in the midst of transferring 200 officers to patrol from administrative duties to stem the city's violence by the end of march. in january, the city recorded 43 murders, including 15-year-old band majorette hadiya pendleton. the department will use the additional officers to saturate areas where trouble is brewing, reports the chicago tribune. patent pending tweet the blik calendar widget is a picture-based event list . your calendar events are displayed automatically as an appropriate picture along with just the text you need to see in order to quickly view what's coming up on your calendar. features: - works with the built-in android calendar - displays calendar events in a widget - displays a picture to represent each event on your calendar - shows only the most important words for each event - hundreds of rules to decide which picture to use - works automatically market page over 400 pictures and more than 775 built-in keyword rules to match your events. pro version adds more features including an additional 370 keyword rules as well as the ability to define your own custom rules. read the frequently asked questions here: faq release notes for all versions. purchase the pro license key from the android market. you can also donate to help support further development. greyhound racing nsw officials refused to hand over information to the rspca that could have helped identify a number of people suspected of involvement in live baiting due to privacy concerns, an inquiry has heard. the special commission into greyhound racing has been told a diary which "contained very valued information" was seized during a raid in february 2015 on an unidentified trainer who was suspected of using live animals to train greyhounds on his western sydney property. the chief inspector of the rspca, david o'shannessy, told the commission on thursday that the society had asked greyhound racing nsw to identify the people in the diary, which had a list of christian names and telephone numbers. but mr o'shannessy said the racing organisation would not assist unless they received a formal notice to produce information. the financial consequences of compulsive buying are obvious given the large amount of debt reported by compulsive buyers in many studies. credit cards allow consumers to borrow money very easily in order to satisfy their desire to purchase. in two web-based experiments, we found that compulsive shoppers often overspent and were rarely influenced by price. their overspending was partially mediated by their excessive use of credit cards. furthermore, compulsive shoppers were less conscious of their budgets, especially when they used credit cards. they also obtained more pleasure from accomplishing a shopping trip and were more distressed by delayed product delivery than normal shoppers. finally, compulsive shoppers in taiwan were more compulsive than those in the united kingdom: they displayed many of the above symptoms of compulsive buying more saliently. we live in an information age. much of the history of our faith which was once obscure, is now coming into our cultural awareness. some of this information appears to be challenging to our faith. many websites and online articles today are written to impose a critical view of the church and to diminish faith. what is needed is a fair and balanced article designed to show the critical perspective, then to go one step further in surrounding that perspective with faithful views. the mormon primer attempts to do this, offering what we believe is objectivity and historical context. a clear explanation of the material supplemented with footnotes and resources to allow the reader to learn on their own. this is what we believe we have done with the mormon primer. rumor: xbox 360 getting free-to-play games next year microsoft may be introducing a free-to-play games through xbox live next year, letting developers take advantage of micro-transaction based revenue models. the free-to-play games model that become popular in pc development circles is starting to creep into consoles, and may make its way xbox 360 in the near future. microsoft plans to introduce f2p games next year through xbox live, according to an undisclosed source speaking to ign. microsoft had planned to make the casual racer joy ride follow this revenue model, before it transformed into a kinect launch title. the sales model, true to its name, lets users play a game for free, but allows them to purchase cosmetic or game-altering items as well as micro-transactions. it's become particularly popular among massively multiplayer online games and facebook titles like farmville. recently larger publishers like ea have taken notice, experimenting with f2p games like battlefield heroes and the recently launched battlefield play4free. meanwhile, sony has beaten microsoft to the punch by utilizing one of its own established properties, launching free realms on the playstation 3 in march. as usual with rumors, take this with a grain of salt. if it proves true, e3 seems like the place for microsoft to announce such a plan, as the event serves multiple roles in attracting game fans, stockholders, and developers. the my shop series visits ziferblat in manchester, a kind of cafe that charges you six pence a minute for the time you spend there. customers can consume as much food, drink and wi-fi in that time as they like. the concept began in russia and a small chain is now growing in the uk. the first one opened in london two and a half years ago, as we reported at the time. with a revamped, more spacious design, it is in liverpool and manchester that the business model has really taken off. there are now multiple branches in the cities and more about to roll out. our video journalist dougal shaw went to check it out. this video is part of a series from the bbc business unit called my shop. the series focuses on distinctive, independent shops and is filmed on a smartphone. to suggest a shop email us. for the latest updates about the series follow video journalist dougal shaw on twitter or facebook. police in russia have arrested a surgeon for stealing heroin from the stomach of a patient upon whom he was operating. the unidentified doctor was found in possession of 5 grams of heroin after performing surgery on a man who had allegedly been smuggling drugs in his stomach, the police in the siberian region of krasnoyarsk said on tuesday. it said that investigators found that some heroin was missing after the doctor had removed the drugs from the patient's stomach in the hospital of the city of bogotol. when they searched the surgeon, they found a pack of heroin hidden in his clothes. police also said that the medic was high. investigators published a video showing the suspect being locked up in a police cell. they said that he might face up to 15 years in prison. the statement said nothing on the situation of the purported drug courier or why anybody would swallow drugs for smuggling in a remote region some 4000 kilometres east of moscow. the young turks is the largest online news organization in the world, and one of the most, if not the most, reputable. the free media has always been and will always be a necessary part of our system of checks and balances. however, the free media has been substantially reduced as more news organizations have been bought by for-profit companies. these companies have a financial incentive to provide information to the masses, true or otherwise, that glorifies the company and the government policies that support them. for these reasons the need for media outlets free from censorship is greater than ever before. the young turks is one of these outlets, as it only accepts donations from small dollar contributors. and as a result is needed now more than ever in washington to check government. tunisian film director nadia el fani is worshipped abroad and cursed at home. she has won international awards and worked with renowned names like roman polanski, but her latest film, neither allah, nor master, screened at the cannes and berlin film festivals, has provoked a violent reaction back in tunisia. the film raises provocative questions about the status of secularism in a predominantly muslim country and includes scenes of a restaurant that is serving food during fasting hours in the month of ramadan. currently abroad, she has been the subject of death threats and could face charges of blasphemy if she returns home. sian griffiths met nadia el fani at a conference in canada and asked her, for bbc africa, what she had hoped to achieve with her documentary. for more african news from the bbc download the africa today podcast. football federation australia's worst fears may have just been realised; the mob is mobilising. following a marathon first day of meetings with a joint fifa and asian football confederation mission aimed to break the bitter political impasse of australian football, key australian stakeholders sought to strike a deal over a new ffa congress strictly on their terms. ffa chief david gallop and chairman steven lowy will keep fifa updated on their progress. credit:james brickwood a-league club owners, state member federations, the pfa and even national premier league clubs inched closer to breaking the bitter deadlock that's threatened to bring australian football governance to a standstill and could reach an agreement for a new membership structure as early as thursday. however, in doing so, they are attempting to completely sideline the ffa from the peace talks. if successful, it could see the game avoid fifa's intervention going any further than this week's mission, but could also render the tenure of ffa chairman steven lowy all but untenable if parties side with his opponents. leicester boss nigel pearson is hoping to tie up loan deals for arsenal youngsters nico yennaris and ignasi miquel. versatile yennaris, 20, can play at right back or in midfield while former barcelona trainee miquel is comfortable at centre half or left back. yennaris went on loan to notts county last season and his spell at leicester could go a long way to deciding his long term future. spain under-21 international miquel, 20, has also been courted by real sociedad for a loan spell and arsenal are likely to let him go out to give him regular first team games. arsenal's defensive injury worries with left back have meant miquel has played a lot in pre-season and they may be cautious on letting him go out. the raaf wants to close bases at richmond in western sydney and laverton outside melbourne in a move that could shift hundreds of defence personnel to other states but free up large tracts of land for development. the chief of air force, air marshal leo davies, said on thursday the raaf had a preference for richmond and laverton to close, though he stressed this was part of a broader plan that had not yet been put to the government. defence minister marise payne said the government was "not considering" closing either base despite the raaf's signalling that richmond in particular will need heavy investment to make it worthwhile keeping it open. air marshal davies said richmond's functions had been diminishing for years and a decision was needed on whether to close it or invest hundreds of millions of dollars to get it to a "fighting state". modders otellino, cnc and company have created content that allows fallout: new vegas players to join the enclave faction and engage with fully voice-acted characters, side-quests and a storyline. available through nexusmods, the enclave includes a five-part series main quest, four side-quests, a potential companion, random encounters, a radio station and more. players must be at least level 15 and have interacted with benny from the game's main questline to access the additional content. "after the numerous defeats across all remaining fronts, the enclave has splintered into their own factions with their own ideologies," the mod's description reads. "two factions are about to go head to head in the mojave wasteland, and general jamison is turning to the courier for help. will he join the enclave, or leave them to their fate?" the mod is incompatible with those that edit searchlight airfield and requires players to have the latest version of fallout: new vegas on steam. "illegitimate" versions of the game are not supported. more information on the mod and downloadable files are available via nexusmods. the english premier league 2013-14 season is nearly upon us, and bleacher report brings you the top 100 players coming into the new campaign. the method used to grade and score the players will be revealed, while any new signings up until sunday 11 august have been taken into account. eager to see who the top-rated player is, how your team's new signings measure up to the existing crop or to check on any upsets? the rankings are designed to represent where the players are right now, meaning last season's play is a major factor in their scoring. nemanja vidic misses out on the top 100 despite getting some minutes under his belt in preseason because no one can be sure what state he's in at the moment. there's some room to wiggle too, and shinji kagawa is a great example of this: a poor 2012-13 season wasn't exactly his fault, and he stands to improve tenfold should david moyes use him correctly. the san antonio spurs were knocked out in the first round of the playoffs this season, eliminating the chance of the spurs to repeat as champions. while their back-to-back title dreams may be gone for san antonio, it appears as though manu ginobili and tim duncan won't be. coach popovich, tim duncan, manu ginobili and tony parker all appear to be on the same page in making a return to the court together next season. will the spurs spend money in free agency to add a big piece to make another run at the title? will this be the last season for coach popovich, tim duncan and manu ginobili? do the spurs have anything left for another title run? find out as bleacher report's ric bucher goes in-depth on the san antonio spurs' future and what the team's plans in the offseason are in the video above. wildlife biologist liz bonnin sets off on a worldwide journey of discovery to find out why animals of different species make friends with each other, and even fall in love. animals that behave in ways we would never expect fascinate us. in recent years, the internet has been changing the perception that most species have evolved to stick to their own kind and to generally not get along. videos, generating millions of hits, are showing different species interacting in ways previously not thought possible. these animals are displaying what looks like friendship, affection and even love towards one another. but what lies at the heart of these behaviours? can science explain why these unusual partnerships take place? and if so, what can they teach us about how the animal kingdom really works? wildlife biologist liz bonnin sets off on a worldwide journey of discovery to find out why animals of different species make friends with each other. why would a cat adopt some ducklings? could an orangutan really keep a dog as a pet? could two animals of different species even fall in love? liz is on a mission to find the reasons behind the world's cutest and weirdest animal odd couples. president barack obama is having more difficulty keeping 2008 supporters on his side than mitt romney is having holding onto john mccain voters, according to a new gallup poll. a survey of registered voters conducted july 23-29 found that 92 percent of americans who voted for mccain in 2008 plan to vote for romney this fall and just 5 percent have switched sides to support obama. but among obama's 2008 supporters, just 86 percent are planning to do so again and 9 percent are switching their support to romney. overall 11 percent of voters who say they cast ballots for obama or mccain are supporting the other party's candidate. the margin of error for all 2008 voters is plus or minus 3 percentage points. for the sample of obama or mccain voters, the margin of error is plus or minus 4 percentage points. so many people turned up for the opening of a vegan restaurant in berlin that police intervened to disperse them, german media report. the opening party for the dandy diner created a big buzz on social media. the dandy diary blog on facebook said "police closed us down" - and added an expletive. the bloggers are regarded as male fashion trendsetters. police said about 300 people thronged the new diner and hundreds more were waiting outside on saturday night. germany's der tagesspiegel daily says restaurant openings like that organised by the dandy diner entrepreneurs - jakob haupt and david roth - "have rarely drawn such a big crowd" in berlin. the crowd spilled a long way down karl marx strasse, in berlin's neukoelln district. while nba commissioner david stern and players' union executive billy hunter meet with a federal mediator in hopes of saving the nba season, the league's top players are finalizing plans for a two-week exhibition tour during what would have been the first two weeks of the regular season, according to sources with knowledge of the situation. while the final details are still being worked out, more than a dozen of the league's best players are working to join forces on what would be a two-week, six-game, four-continent blockbuster tour, sources said. in a trip that could resemble team usa's takeover of the world stage at the 2008 beijing games, kobe bryant, lebron james, dwyane wade, derrick rose, carmelo anthony, chris paul, amare stoudemire, chris bosh, rajon rondo, blake griffin, russell westbrook, carlos boozer, paul pierce and kevin love are among the players expected to participate. kevin durant and kevin garnett, among a few others, are also contemplating joining the tour. tyson chandler also has agreed to participate in the tour, a source close to chandler told espn the magazine's ric bucher. griffin's availability may be in question, however, as he was forced to pull out of a charity exhibition sunday in oklahoma city because of a cut on his right foot. griffin's agent, sam goldfeder, said wednesday that griffin was hurt while swimming in the ocean but that it's a minor injury and he should be back on the court soon. atlanta business mogul calvin darden has been putting the tour together with the players' agents for nearly three months. he has already obtained signed contracts from bryant, wade, bosh, griffin, rondo and pierce. sources say he's hoping to complete the rest of the agreements, along with insurance requirements, over the next few days. investigators say two women panicked when they found their 94-year-old father dead in his central florida home and buried him in the yard. lake county sheriff's spokesman fred jones said thursday that melvin kort's daughters confessed to burying him. their secret started unraveling in september after deputies received a tip about a body buried near the home. authorities were conducting a dna test to confirm kort's identity. an autopsy showed no signs of trauma. jones says kort died four to five years ago. the orlando sentinel reports kort's brother reported him missing in july and told investigators he hadn't spoken to him in nine years. deputies stopped by the home and the daughters said their father had moved up north. the case has been forwarded to the state attorney's office for possible charges. after a period of one to two months without any significant rain, parts of southern us have been hit by record rainfall. late november saw heavy rainfall in many parts of the region, with wildfire-ravaged tennessee welcoming up to 125mm of rain. drought is less of an issue for much of texas. the south of the state can usually expect a maximum of around 100m of rain during the month of december. yet on saturday alone, the coastal city of galveston recorded a total of 161mm of rain, a record for december. across galveston county, rainfall totals are thought to have reached in excess of 250mm. unsurprisingly, widespread flooding was reported, with some roads becoming impassable, particularly to the north of the city. shelters were opened for those made temporarily homeless by the floods. despite the inconvenience and disruption caused by the flooding, much more rain is needed to have any impact on the drought situation across the region. several states, including eastern tennessee, southwestern north carolina, northwestern south carolina, northern georgia, northern alabama and east-central mississippi have rainfall deficits of between 200 and 375mm. that may be partially eroded in the coming days, as the high-level low-pressure system responsible for the rain looks set to continue its slow eastward path. as the low-pressure system moves east, it will reinvigorate an east-west orientated frontal boundary, introducing even more moisture-laden air from the gulf of mexico. many of the above-mentioned states could see 50 to 125mm of rain until the end of tuesday. overview of the trezor's memory layout and memory protection features. the mcu powering a trezor is the stm32f205ret. this chip is an arm core with many peripherals on die including gpio, spi, usb, and flash. attached to these are the trezor's buttons, the oled screen, usb for power and data, and the trezor's firmware, bootloader, and metadata storage -- including private key material. the flash is structured as follows: 32k of bootloader 32k of metadata storage 448k of space for the firmware when a trezor is powered up, the bootloader is executed. the bootloader initializes the hardware, checks the signature of the firmware against a signature baked into the bootloader to make sure that the firmware was signed by satoshilabs. if it was, then the bootloader cleanly transfers execution to the firmware. if the signature does not match, then a warning stating that the firmware is not official, and the user must select 'ok' before the bootloader transfers control to the firmware. the memory where the bootloader resides is write protected. the signature that the bootloader checks for cannot be updated. this is a fine method to alert a user in the case where an evil firmware were to be inserted without the user's knowledge. the 'unofficial' warning would appear on the screen and the user would know to stop using that device. the problem is when you want to run a firmware that you compiled yourself. in that case, the trezor will display the 'unofficial' warning, but your trezor has a firmware with code that you want to run. you can click 'ok' and have it continue, but you do not have positive confirmation that the trezor is running your firmware, and not evil firmware. the device behaves the same way. on a big night of champions league football last wednesday, it was a surprise to see jose mourinho, whose former club porto were among those in action in europe's elite competition, at craven cottage watching fulham's 1-1 draw against rotherham united. but the chelsea manager was not just taking in a game at his local championship club. no, mourinho was there with an eye on marcus bettinelli, fulham's goalkeeper who is now being strongly considered as chelsea's second-choice to thibaut courtois. a bid is expected for the goalkeeper who only has one more year left on his contract at fulham. petr cech will leave stamford bridge this summer and while much of the speculation over who might become courtois's under-study has centred on older experienced goalkeepers such as robert green, and even 44-year-old brad friedel, it is understood that mourinho would prefer someone younger. bettinelli, born in camberwell, south london, is an england under-21 international who turns 22 next month. mourinho knows a lot about bettinelli, who made his first-team debut for fulham only last august, not least because he is the son of vic bettinelli who is the academy goalkeeping coach at the club. mourinho's son, jose mario, is a goalkeeper with fulham's youth team who is obviously also regularly watched by his father. we discuss the surprise closing of bioshock developer irrational games, and talk about carbine studio's promising new mmo wildstar. in the first segment, host matt helgeson is joined by joe juba and matt bertz to discuss the recent news that irrational games has closed up shop. bioshock creator ken levine will continue at 2k with a much smaller, 15-person team, but working on much smaller scale projects. we ponder the possible reasons for the news and what -- if any future -- the bioshock franchise has. the second segment is much cheerier, as we're joined by carbine's stephan frost, design producer of the promising new mmorpg wildstar. matt miller and new gi pc editor daniel tack are on hand to ask frost questions about the studio's vision for the game and gameplay details of the game's playable beta. note: this is a bit short. we got hit with a huge blizzard and closed the office today. i had to use the two segments i was able to tape yesterday before the storm. we'll catch up on some of the new releases we missed next week. kansas education commissioner randy watson says the state needs to double the percentage of students who earn college degrees or training certificates in order to compete in the changing economy. commissioner randy watson says a national report found that 72 percent of the jobs in kansas by 2020 will require some level of post-secondary education. the lawrence journal-world reports data from the national student clearinghouse found only about 65 percent of kansas high school graduates in 2010 enrolled in college the following year. six years after graduation, fewer than 40 percent had earned any kind of degree or training certificate. watson spoke this past week to a joint meeting of kansas senate and house education committees, which will help write a new school funding formula this year. bike shops and repairs shops are popping up around detroit. then there's the bike lanes and regular events like the slow roll where a mass of bicyclists ride around the city. rebecca davis writes on nbc's website: when you think of the motor city, bicycles may not be the first thing that comes to mind. in recent years, however, detroit has seen a surge in cycling interest and bike-related small businesses opening. now, "the d" is home to one of the largest weekly community bike rides in the world. slow roll detroit, which was founded in 2010 by detroit residents jason hall and mike mackool, meets weekly to explore different neighborhoods on their roughly 10-mile route in an effort to highlight new businesses and community projects happening around the city. a suicide bomber has been killed in an attack targeting the ancient karnak temple in the southern egyptian city of luxor, officials have said, the second attack in just over one week targeting egypt's vital tourism industry. another attacker was shot dead by authorities during the attack on wednesday, while a third was arrested, officials said, adding that a police officer was injured. officials said no civilians were injured in the attack. luxor and its ancient sites are frequented by millions of foreign and egyptian tourists every year. images from the scene of the explosion showed what appeared to be body parts on the ground in front of a tourist shop and atop a public restroom, the reuters news agency reported. authorities said police have foiled two other suicide attacks also targeting the nile-side temple, one of the country's main tourist attractions, rivalling the pyramids at giza. antiquities minister mamdouh al-damaty said he had, in coordination with the interior ministry, ordered security to be bolstered at ancient sites across egypt. the karnak complex is a vast open-air museum, and the second largest ancient religious site in the world, after the angkor wat temple of cambodia. it is believed to be the second most visited historical site in egypt with only the giza pyramids receiving more visits. the attack comes a week after two police officers were shot dead by gunmen on a road leading to the great pyramids of giza, just west of capital cairo. the possibility of bobby petrino becoming the next head coach for the arkansas state red wolves is "gaining momentum," according to cbs sports' bruce feldman. the former arkansas razorbacks coach reportedly contacted arkansas state about their opening after it was announced that gus malzahn accepted the head job with the auburn tigers. if petrino ends up coaching the red wolves next season, he'll inherit a team that finished 9-3 during the regular season on their way to becoming champions of the sun belt conference. petrino last coached at arkansas in 2011, leading the razorbacks to an 11-2 season before being fired during the offseason. prior to his successful tenure at arkansas, petrino served as the head coach at louisville, where he led the cardinals to two seasons with 11 or more victories. following his stint there, he held the atlanta falcons' head coaching position for 13 games in 2007 before leaving to take the arkansas job. enter your world code: submit this world code is invalid - please try again. or, if you need to create a new world code to set up a new game: create world code enter your world code: how many teams will participate in this world? ideally, you should have all seven teams. 1 - britain 2 - britain and france 3 - britain, france and belgium 4 - britain, france, belgium and spain 5 - britain, france, belgium, spain and germany 6 - britain, france, belgium, spain, germany and italy 7 - britain, france, belgium, spain, germany, italy and portugal submit welcome to the scramble for africa! you will take on the role of a european country ready to colonize the continent of africa. your goal is to claim as much land and as many resources as possible, though your specific objectives will vary. complaint we received complaints from viewers who felt nick robinson's report on the scottish first minister's press conference implied that alex salmond had not answered a question put to him. response from bbc news the bbc's political editor nick robinson asked scotland's first minister alex salmond two questions at his press conference on thursday 11th september. the first question centred on the tax implications of rbs moving its legal headquarters to london; the second on why voters should trust a politician rather than businessmen. nick robinson's report showed the second question on trust, with a script line noting that mr salmond had not answered that point. mr salmond's answer on tax was lengthy. since it was not possible to use it in full in a short news report, a series of clips were included making his central points - the job implications of the re-location of rbs, the accusation that the treasury broke rules by briefing market sensitive information and his request that the bbc should co-operate with an enquiry. in addition nick robinson's script pointed out that the first minister said there would be no loss of tax revenue. the bbc considers that the questions were valid and the overall report balanced and impartial, in line with our editorial guidelines. on a trip to israel, mitt romney is trying to win over a tiny sliver of a small but powerful section of the american electorate. president barack obama is doing the same at home. romney's international trip is unlikely to change the broader campaign against obama but the republican is looking to close the gap among jewish voters. his campaign doesn't anticipate winning a majority of jewish voters, but he is trying to whittle down obama's stronghold. romney hopes the trip to israel will help him make inroads, especially in florida, where roughly 4 percent of voters are jewish. but surveys of american jews indicate that only 6 percent of them place israel as their top priority. romney also hopes to solidify his standing with republican evangelical christians. a man dressed as a creepy clown and his female accomplice are facing child neglect charges after leaving their 4-year-old at home while they terrorized a wisconsin neighborhood, police said. city of menasha police officers responded in the early morning hours of oct. 7 to 911 calls reporting people in clown masks chasing after vehicles. dashcam video shows the officer confronting two men, ages 20 and 29, who were allegedly involved in the incident. police said they also found the clowns' driver, a 26-year-old woman, in a vehicle parked nearby. while no one was charged for the clown costumes, police did arrest the 29-year-old man and 26-year-old woman after discovering the couple had allegedly left their 4-year-old child home alone for several hours during the clown prank. the child was placed by the department of human services outside of the home. the parents have been referred to court on charges of child neglect. the woman was also held in the winnebago county jail on a probation hold. the 20-year-old man was not charged in the incident. surgery 'might be necessary' for stig broeckx following baloise belgium tour crash stig broeckx in induced coma following head operations stig broeckx in vegetative state with severe brain damage stig broeckx hit by medical moto at kuurne-brussel-kuurne lotto soudal files complaint in broeckx motorcycle incident broeckx remains in an induced coma in a hospital in aachen, where he has been the past 11 days. he underwent surgery last week to relieve intracranial pressure in his head, a result of multiple bleeds in his brain. the surgery was successful in reducing the pressure, but the team said it is not yet clear what long-term consequences he will face from the traumatic brain injury. "these examinations can only take place when the condition of stig has been stable for a long time," the team's statement read. the belgium tour incident was the second time this season that broeckx was hit by a motorcycle during a race. in kuurne-brussel-kuurne, he was clipped by the medical motorbike. he fractured his collarbone in that incident and was out of action for two months. age of wushu is rolling along so well, that we are opening a fourth server this weekend. red phoenix is launching at 11:00 am pdt, saturday, april 13, for all players looking to start fresh from the ashes or are a new player joining the red hot epic in its opening weekend. all launch events planned for white tiger and black tortoise will also go into effect for red phoenix as this is a new server coinciding with launch. we are also excited to open the new server for all those coming to the game later in the month on april 23rd, coinciding with the retail launch of age of wushu at gamestop stores across the us. more information on this to come. thanks again for the amazing reviews, reception, and response to the free-to-play mmo that is creating buzz everywhere we look. head to the forums and start recruiting for the red phoenix server or hop back onto the other servers and keep training towards that masterful position in-game. the choice of servers and everything else is yours in age of wushu! blast at facility in ritterhude where solvents are handled damages nearby residential area and is heard for miles around a huge explosion rocked a chemical facility on tuesday night near bremen in north-western germany, injuring several people, police said. police told the dpa news agency that one person was severely burned in the blast and the explosion damaged a nearby residential area in the town of ritterhude, which is in the county of verden-osterholz. the injured man was found in the rubble and several local residents were slightly injured, police and firefighters said. the blast, at 9pm, was heard for miles and sparked an intense fire. marcus neumann, spokesman for the local verden-osterholz police, said authorities believed the injured man was a plant employee whose car was found outside the plant. neumann said the employee responded to an alarm on his beeper and drove from his home to the plant to investigate. facebook twitter pinterest the ritterhude explosion seen from a distance. photograph: ap neumann said the cause of the blast was not clear as the site was still too hot and not yet accessible to investigators. the plant is owned by organo fluid gmbh, which specialises in recovering valuable solvents from used mixtures. born in ukraine in 1920, demjanjuk first came to the world's attention in 1977 when he was accused of being ivan the terrible, a sadistic guard at the treblinka death camp. stripped of the us citizenship he had held since moving to the states in the 1940s he was extradited to israel where he was found guilty and sentenced to death after a trial during which treblinka survivors delivered harrowing testimonies. but in 1993 demjanjuk escaped the gallows after the israeli supreme court ruled that he had been the victim of a case of mistaken identity and quashed the original conviction. the past, however, once again caught up with demjanjuk when new allegations surfaced that he had worked as an ss guard at the sobibor, majdanek and flossenburg camps, and in 2008 the german federal prosecutor asked the united states to extradite him. after having gone through various legal attempts to stay in the usa in may 2009 demjanjuk was put into a wheelchair, taken to an airport and flown to germany to stand trial for the his alleged role in the murder of at least 28,000 people at sobibor. demjanjuk's main defence in the trial was that he had been a pow during the war so could not have worked as a camp guard. in addition his defence argued that as there was no one alive who could identify him as a sobibor guard there was no real evidence of his guilt. in this video interview conducted by terry coatta, kate matsudaira discusses key architectural choices in the design of systems and data partitioning. related: pat helland - identity by any other name the complex cacophony of intertwined systems raymond blum, betsy beyer - achieving digital permanence the many challenges to maintaining stored information and ways to overcome them graham cormode - data sketching the approximate approach is often faster and more efficient. heinrich hartmann - statistics for engineers applying statistical techniques to operations data kate matsudaira has just recently made a foray into novel territory as founder of her own company pop forms. prior to that she worked in engineering leadership roles at companies such as decide, seomoz, and amazon. her technical experience spans a wealth of areas, but she has consistently been involved with the construction of high performance distributed systems and systems addressing data collection and analysis. kate is also well-known for her blog on which deals with issues in leadership and management. in this video, she discusses her experience in building and scaling out systems that collect and analyze large volumes of data. she covers key architectural choices in the design of these systems, delving into data partitioning in particular. more than 900 people have been arrested in china for selling fake or tainted meat in the last three months, state media say. officials say they uncovered almost 400 such cases and seized more than 20,000 tonnes of fake meat. in one case, the suspects made fake mutton from foxes, mink and rats after adding chemicals, state media said. the report is the latest in a series of cases highlighting food safety issues in china. in the latest case, examples of wrongdoing included suspects using a hydrogen peroxide solution to process chicken claws or injecting water into meat to increase its weight. state news agency xinhua reported the arrests as a part of a national crackdown that will now focus on dairy products. it also quoted an official as saying that china had "deep-seated food safety problems" that needed to be resolved. food safety remains an issue of huge concern for the chinese public, reports the bbc's martin patience in beijing. last year there were reports that some suppliers to pharmaceutical firms used so-called gutter oil - reprocessed kitchen waste dredged from restaurant drains - to make antibiotics. previous cases also involved the use of gutter oil as cooking oil or in food production. public concerns also remains over milk products, after a high-profile scandal involving the use of melamine in baby milk formula. objective caml is an object-oriented language based on the functional programming language ml. it combines the benefits of ml's style of functional programming with those of classes, objects, and inheritance. also known as ocaml, the language features these qualities: - functional programming is encouraged, but not required - execution safety is guaranteed through the formal type system and exceptions for out-of-bound conditions - compiler type inference supplies most program type information automatically - classes and objects integrated into the ml type framework of parametric polymorphism - high quality implementation, including automatic memory management this synergistic combination results in both higher reliability and higher productivity. combining type safety and functional programming increases reliability, while combining type inference, parametric polymorphism, and automatic memory management increases productivity. topping everything off is ocaml's integrated object system, which allows object-oriented programming without sacrificing the benefits of functional programming, parametric polymorphism, and type inference. boris epshteyn, the white house staffer in charge of overseeing its television surrogates, is leaving his job, according to multiple reports saturday evening. the reason for his departure was not immediately clear. according to the new york times, epshteyn was let go, and one senior administration official told the newspaper that they were looking at other opportunities in the trump administration for him. advertisement epshteyn was a frequent surrogate on television programs during trump's 2016 presidential campaign. but the white house aide was said to have contentious and combative relationships with television news producers and bookers. a politico report earlier this month revealed that epshteyn had threatened to pull white house surrogates from fox news appearances, after a booker for the conservative network asked him about trump's travel ban executive order. apache spark is a fast cluster computing framework. it is used for large scale data processing. our course provides an introduction to this amazing technology and you will learn to use apache spark for big data projects. this introductory course is simple to follow and will lay the foundation for big data and parallel computing. the technology based on in memory primitives makes it almost 100 times faster than hadoop and mapreduce. the following content is covered in the course - apache spark applications - machine learning and graph x - run time modes like yarn cluster and mesos cluster - learn to setup hortonworks vm - introduction to spark scala api - execute apache spark tasks - configuring apache spark - building and running spark applications - write spark applications for visualization, machine learning, streaming sql - resilient distributed datasets - application submission and spark driver - lambda architecture - spark streaming and dstream learn all this and much more in this unique course with abundant practical tips and theoretical rigor to master apache spark. australians are popping way too many pills and it is not just bad for the population, it is also increasingly bad for the environment. antibiotics, painkillers, heart drugs, oral contraceptives and anti-depressants are just some of the drugs being swallowed and excreted or thrown away, and they are slowly building up to "alarming" levels in river systems and marine sediments around the world, according to a new report. the report by the national toxics network, entitled "pharmaceutical pollution in the environment: issues for australia, new zealand and pacific regions", has warned that the drugs are ending up in the water and soil through treated and untreated sewage being used as fertiliser, and there are no checks on accumulating levels. it is one of the first reports of its kind to bring together and examine available data, which shows multiple drugs are in biosolids and treated waste water being used as fertiliser and are turning up in river and marine sediments in australia. the author of the report, dr kirstie murdoch, who has a phd in molecular and cellular biology, said antibiotics are of "particular concern to human health" due to their potential to exacerbate the problem of antibiotic resistance. tomorrow, the 26th of june, will mark the opening ceremony of the tourist case until of the samui provincial court. this court has been created to handle the legal cases of tourists in a timely manner to allow legal proceedings to be dealt with for those here for a limited period of time and enhance the image of the judicial process of the country and beneficially affect the social and economic systems of the country in general. proceedings will commence at 8am with guest registration. at 8-30am nai phatarasak wanasaeng, the secretary of the court of justice office as ceremony chairman will arrive at the court. at 8-30 am the ceremony mater will present the welcome speech. at 8-45 the ceremony chairman will view the exhibition and at 9am there will be a ceremonial opening of the tourist case unit at the koh samui provincial court. a tour will be given at 9-15 and a at 9-30 the ceremony chairman will have his photograph taken with guests and give interviews to the local media. comments comments if you like a story please share and like it with all your friends and leave comments above. an interesting photo has found its way onto the internet claiming to come from the set of zack snyder's batman v superman: dawn of justice. it looks like it could be a costume mold for the new superman suit design. the style of it is pretty much in line with what we saw from the batman suit, so the two suits look like they belong in the same dc universe. there's no confirmation of where this photo actually came from, or if it's really part of the movie, but it looks like it could be. i guess we'll know if it's real of not if the warner bros. legal team asks us to remove the photo of the suit. either way, what do you think of the possible new design? google started showing a few ads in the play store phone client earlier this year, but the feature has been in testing this whole time. play store ads are now available to all interested parties, so get ready to see a lot more of them. nothing is changing with respect to how the ads are displayed. they'll appear at the top of the results list with a small yellow badge marking them as ads. the option of placing ads in the play store client will start rolling out today to all advertisers and devs who use the search app install campaign for adwords. it's not clear if you'll be seeing ads in every search or if google's going to ease us into things. either way, you'll probably get used to them. the ads will be promoting google play content, so at least they'll blend in. newcastle are in advanced talks with rafa benitez with current head coach steve mcclaren set to be sacked, according to sky sources. sky sports news hq understands mcclaren will be dismissed by newcastle before the monday night football clash with leicester, making way for benitez to take control. sky sources understand benitez is in talks over a three-year deal and will be allowed to bring his own backroom staff to st james' park. sky sources reported on wednesday that newcastle made an approach for the spaniard and it is understood he will be named the club's manager, with the magpies ready to scrap their current policy of employing a head coach. it is understood first-team affairs for the match against leicester could be left to first-team coaches ian cathro and peter beardsley. mcclaren arrived at the club's darsley park training complex as normal on thursday shortly after 8am and continued to prepare the first-team squad for their clash against the premier league leaders. he spoke to managing director lee charnley on the telephone on wednesday afternoon but a planned face-to-face meeting failed to materialise. we take a look at rafael benitez's career since he arrived in england back in 2004 we take a look at rafael benitez's career since he arrived in england back in 2004 mcclaren did not face the media on thursday ahead of newcastle's trip to the king power stadium and was set to hold further discussions with charnley following training. saturday's 3-1 home defeat to bournemouth condemned newcastle to their fifth loss in six matches and left them in 19th place in the premier league table. welcome to rainbow dash network, a social networking site for bronies! whether you want a place to share your creations or just a spot to make some new friends, rdn is the place to be! get to know your fellow ponies! share something you made, talk about episodes, or just chat it up. we even have a synchronized video player! join groups for people with similar interests, or create your own and start a whole new community! meetup groups, game clans, and more are all welcome. our software is open-source and free to use or contribute to. we're always growing and developing new ways to improve the site experience. feel free to browse the site to learn more about our community. if you like what you see, register an account and start posting! we're always welcoming to new faces! with all the data google collects about us and our search histories, could the company use its technical prowess to help catch terrorists and mass murderers before they commit crimes? norwegian daily dagbladet reported that terrorist anders breivik spent 200 days searching google for terms such as "how to make a bomb" before he went on his rampage. already google uses data from searches to improve its targeted advertising and search rankings - and even to track the spread of the flu - leading academic ideas site the conversation to ask the question "why didn't google catch the norway killer?" speaking to the website, charles sturt university computer science lecturer craig wright said he expected people in european countries to call for search engines to monitor user behaviour as a result of the attacks. a kenyan man has sued activists who urged women to deny their partners sex for a week as a protest against the country's political impasse. james kimondo told reporters outside the nairobi high court his wife had observed the boycott and caused him "anxiety and sleepless nights". "i have been suffering mental anguish, stress, backaches, lack of concentration," he said. it is unclear how many women joined the strike, which ended on wednesday. a group called the women's development organisation called for the boycott as a means of forcing political leaders to put their rivalry aside to work for the common good. the wife of kenyan prime minister raila odinga endorsed the move, telling the bbc that political leaders were neglecting the needs of "the common person". in court on friday, mr kimondo said through his lawyer that his wife, teresia wanjiku, had denied him his conjugal rights. he is seeking undisclosed "general damages" from the organisers of the boycott, on the grounds that it "interfered with his happy marriage", the kenyan broadcaster kbc reports. espn nfl analyst eric mangini is joining the san francisco 49ers as an offensive consultant. in his role with the defending nfc champions, mangini will work to find weaknesses in opposing defenses. the role is a bit of a shift for mangini, who always has been known as a defensive coach from his time working under bill belichick in new england. he also has experience on the offensive side of the ball in his coaching career. mangini has ties to 49ers general manager trent baalke, who was a personnel scout for the new york jets in 1998-99 while mangini was a defensive assistant. mangini also has previously worked with current 49ers special teams coach brad seely. mangini, who started his work for espn as a guest analyst during the 2010 playoffs, previously has served as a head coach with the jets and cleveland browns. interesting research: "what you see is what they get: protecting users from unwanted use of microphones, cameras, and other sensors," by jon howell and stuart schechter. abstract: sensors such as cameras and microphones collect privacy-sensitive data streams without the user's explicit action. conventional sensor access policies either hassle users to grant applications access to sensors or grant with no approval at all. once access is granted, an application may collect sensor data even after the application's interface suggests that the sensor is no longer being accessed. we introduce the sensor-access widget, a graphical user interface element that resides within an application's display. the widget provides an animated representation of the personal data being collected by its corresponding sensor, calling attention to the application's attempt to collect the data. the widget indicates whether the sensor data is currently allowed to flow to the application. the widget also acts as a control point through which the user can configure the sensor and grant or deny the application access. by building perpetual disclosure of sensor data collection into the platform, sensor-access widgets enable new access-control policies that relax the tension between the user's privacy needs and applications' ease of access. while his abuse lasted almost a decade he did not come to the attention of the authorities in britain until the middle of 2014, when the nca received a tip from australia about his postings on the dark web. they began liaising with their counterparts in malaysia but claim jurisdictional issues meant they were powerless to act while he remained overseas. they then discovered he was planning to return to britain for christmas and he was arrested on december 19 2014 when he landed at gatwick airport. in one particularly sick twist to the case, huckle insisted on viewing all the online material showing his abuse before he pleaded guilty to the charges when detectives investigated his laptop, camera and phone they discovered more than 20,000 indecent images of young children, many featuring huckle participating in abuse. prosecutors made use of section 72 of the sexual offences act that allows a uk national to be charged in britain for offences committed overseas. following his arrest his parents questioned him about the allegations and he confessed to them that he was a paedophile. his mother was described as completely devastated and his father, who works as an engineer, contacted the police and told the what he had said. a dutch court has blocked the extradition of a terrorism suspect to the united states amid concern about american collusion in his torture. the 26-year-old man, known only as sabir k, is accused of taking part in attacks on us forces in afghanistan. he says he was tortured in pakistan after his arrest there in 2010, and that the americans knew about it. the judge denied the extradition request, saying the degree of us involvement was "unclear". significant the suspect, who is a dutch citizen of pakistani origin, was returned to the netherlands after his arrest and immediately taken into custody. the appeals court in the hague said he could not be extradited to the us "because too much is unclear regarding the role of the american authorities in sabir's torture". the suspect's lawyer, andre seebregts, told the bbc he was now free to stay in the netherlands but could be arrested again if he travelled elsewhere. the bbc's hague correspondent anna holligan says the judgement is significant as it appears to acknowledge that the us may have been aware of torture techniques used against suspects overseas - something washington has always refused to comment on. the dutch government can launch a final appeal to the country's supreme court. most items are made to order. i take great pride in offering high quality and well made items. please allow a minimum of 3-4 business days for me to make your item amazing before i ship! i do not insure all purchases. if you wish to add insurance to your order, please notify me and it can be added to your purchase. all orders do come with usps tracking so you and i both can follow your order to make sure it arrives safely to you! international orders: unfortunately, usps does not offer tracking on international orders, so i would suggest adding insurance to your order. sometimes, customs can take a while on getting your package out of the country or in to yours, so always be prepared for delays. the aap on friday filed a "sedition" complaint against defence minister manohar parrikar and bjp spokesperson gvl narsimharao for their comments on the armed forces. in a letter to the ip estate police station, aap's delhi unit convenor dilip pandey alleged their comments are not only "contemptuous", but a deliberate attempt to bring disaffection towards the armed forces. on october 1, at an event in dehradun, parrikar had made a reference to the ramayana in which hanuman crossed an ocean in a single stride after he was reminded of his extraordinary powers by jamwant. "indian troops were like hanuman who did not quite know their prowess before the surgical strikes," parrikar had said. the party on thursday had said rao had claimed that for the first time the army has been made aware of its capability and by saying this, he was demeaning the military and its sacrifice. the party's youth wing also organised a "prayer service" at jantar mantar so that "good sense" prevails on the bjp leaders. police are still investigating the alleged home invasion. a man is in hospital after allegedly being involved in a fight with home owners as he attempted to break into their sydney eastern suburbs property. police said the man, aged in his 20s, attempted to enter a home in prothero place in pagewood when he was confronted by the occupants of the house. a fight then broke out between two men just before 2:00pm on saturday. police said the intruder fell unconscious during the fight outside the home and needed treatment from nsw ambulance paramedics. the alleged intruder was in a serious but stable condition when he was taken to st vincent's hospital. the man in the home suffered a minor injury to his hand, police said in a statement. it is believed the intruder was not known to the people inside the home. investigations into the incident are continuing. a florida burglar foiled his own escape by falling asleep on the couch after breaking into the home over the weekend. timothy bontrager, 29, was charged with felony burglary of an occupied dwelling after being arrested on saturday morning. a sarasota resident woke up around 7:20 am and found bontrager asleep on the couch in the living room. the woman asked bontrager who he was and why he was in her home, at which point the intruder apologized, wtsp reported. after telling him she was going to call police, bontrager stood up and walked around the living room before leaving the home. the resident told officers who arrived that bontrager had entered through an unlocked sliding glass door. while police were in the home, the woman noticed her wallet, driver's license, credit and debit cards were missing from the table, along with personal checks that had been made out to bontrager. white house chief strategist steve bannon, the nationalist firebrand who helped to fuel donald trump's dizzying rise to the presidency, is leaving the administration. "white house chief of staff john kelly and steve bannon have mutually agreed today would be steve's last day. we are grateful for his service and wish him the best," white house press secretary sarah huckabee sanders said in a statement. stock markets rose after bannon's departure was reported. traders on the new york stock exchange literally cheered the news. they had been fearful of a possible departure of former goldman sachs executive gary cohn as trump's top economic aide. bannon had battled with cohn and other former wall streeters in the administration. a person close to bannon said the chief strategist first decided to leave, according to the new york times. bannon submitted his resignation on aug. 7, but the announcement was delayed after violence at a white nationalist rally in charlottesville, virginia, over the weekend, the newspaper reported. when the times reported the news of bannon's departure earlier friday, it said trump and his aides were deciding when and how to dismiss him and announce the move. kelly had reportedly been reviewing bannon's future in the white house. bannon helped to power trump to the white house with populist nationalist ideas that left many critics questioning his fitness to work as a top administration official. intel has been open with its plans to introduce an internet-based tv service, but many of the details remain up in the air -- not the least of which is the name. however, gigaom has done sleuthing that suggests the offering could be called oncue. a reported shell company for intel, sest, has registered trademarks that include the oncue title, a logo and a "tv has come to its senses" slogan. simultaneously, an employee at the marketing agency omd claims to have worked on the oncue launch. intel isn't commenting on the apparent discoveries, but we wouldn't count on the trademarks arriving in tandem with a product. when the company is taking a very cautious approach to entering the internet tv field, there's a chance that the names will be all we ever see. cat owners who live near areas containing threatened species could be banned from allowing their pets outdoors as the federal government sets its sights on the potential killing machines. australia's first threatened species commissioner, gregory andrews, said all cat owners should keep their pets contained 24 hours a day, saying it makes them happier and healthier, and saves native mammals. the government is seeking to control feral cats. credit:kate leith but a veterinarian said the measure, already in place in some jurisdictions, could cause health and behavioural problems and should be implemented with caution. the government's feral cat plan, released this month, has drawn ire from cat lovers the world over - including french film legend brigitte bardot - as it sets out to cull 2 million feral cats. more details concerning ynw melly's murder case are coming to light, and they are certainly disturbing. according to a booking report obtained by tmz, the florida rapper allegedly hatched a scheme to trick the cops into believing his murdered friends were killed in a drive-by shooting. the booking report claims that melly's friend, cortlen henry first made officials aware of the incident when he drove to the emergency room on oct. 26, asking for assistance for his two friends who had been shot during a drive-by. the victims, anthony williams and christopher thomas, were pronounced dead at the hospital. when questioned, henry told police that he and his deceased friends had just wrapped up a session at the studio when an unidentified car pulled up to them on the freeway and opened fire. police confirmed that eight bullet holes were counted alongside the right side of the vehicle where the victims sat. as the investigation continued, however, police noticed several holes in henry's story. for one, the forensic evidence suggested that shots were fired from inside the car. shell casings discovered suggested the first shot was fired from inside the car and originated from the left, rear passenger seat. they later discovered that was where ynw melly was sitting at the time. henry told police ynw was in the car with them, but hopped out before the shooting occurred. but police said they have surveillance footage that show ynw and henry getting in the car with the victims. cops claim the elaborate "drive-by" scheme was hatched after ynw and henry drove around with the two dead bodies in the car. ynw melly and henry have both been charged with two counts of first-degree murder. when it comes to cutting a real, heartfelt, intense promo, there is dusty rhodes, and then there's everyone else. dusty made a career of giving fans some of the greatest matches in the history of the business. his rivalry with ric flair and the four horsemen is arguably the greatest feud of all time, and his promos, like ric's, were as equally legendary. when dusty spoke the ground shook. he was a force of nature on the mic, and every time he cut a promo, he was more powerful and more persuasive than a southern baptist minister preaching hellfire and brimstone on a sunday morning. dusty was such a natural, and made it look so easy. if there's one thing that the business is missing at times, it's the fire and enthusiasm that dusty brought whenever he opened his mouth. he was one of the best ever, and if you can't take my word for it, just check out the videos. the journal nature reports the breakthrough by us researchers who developed a novel material in which holographs can be created in minutes. the images that the material can capture are almost as sharp as those broadcast on us television. the polymer can also be made into large screens opening up many more possible uses for the 3d images. looking good the problems associated with making holographs has before now limited the use of them to very specialised fields. but the photorefractive polymer created by savas tay and colleagues at the university of arizona, tucson, may help to change that as it removes some of the obstacles to producing them. holographs are created by mixing reflected laser light with a second laser beam to lay down a static image - typically a lengthy, complicated and delicate process. images are laid down in the holographic material using lasers the material has been shown to stay stable throughout hundreds of write and erase cycles. the ability to quickly refresh images in holographs could mean that surgeons use them as a guide during operations or as a better way for pharmaceutical researchers to study molecular interactions for new drugs during simulations. the team has automated the process of capturing, writing and erasing images via a system that can take input from mri, cat scans, satellite or aerial photographs and microscopes. the team released a video showing the images that result from its holographic recording system. they warned that the footage was a "poor guide" to the finished quality which was comparable to the pictures broadcast in the us ntsc format. working with hi-tech firm nitto denko the researchers have so far only made a screen measuring 10cm by 10cm. however, in nature they wrote: "there is no technological limit to the achievable display size, because large thin-film devices can be fabricated and even tiled together". louis theroux: talking to anorexia louis theroux: talking to anorexia production: bbc duration: 60:00 min subtitles: language: english anorexia, the pathological fear of eating and gaining weight, is now the most deadly mental illness in the uk, affecting around one in every 250 women at some point in their lives. in recent years, the number of people being admitted to hospital because of their condition has risen dramatically but with many struggling to make a full recovery, being diagnosed with the eating disorder can sometimes mean a life-long battle. in this film, louis theroux embeds himself in two of london's biggest adult eating-disorder treatment facilities: st ann's hospital and vincent square clinic. he meets women of all ages and at various stages of their illness, accompanying them through an enforced daily routine of scheduled eating, weigh-ins and group therapy sessions. we are proud to announce our participation as a launch partner with the enterprise ethereum alliance in addition to making the first reference implementations of ethereum available in a public cloud. ethereum was the first blockchain supported in azure and it is evolving to address the needs of enterprises globally. focusing on requirements like privacy, permissions and a pluggable architecture while retaining its public roots, ethereum continues to widen the scope of what developers, businesses and consortiums can achieve. while azure and project bletchley are independent of any particular blockchain system, ethereum and enterprise ethereum are supported by azure middleware services like cryptlets, azure active directory for identity, data services via cortana analytics suite, key vault for key management, operations and deployment as well as rich tooling. a large partner community offering industry solutions based on smart contracts, cryptlets and saas offerings provides a valuable consortium data tier outlined in my previous blog post about smart contract architecture and cryptlets. you can now deploy your own implementation of this platform on azure: quorum: enterprise ethereum alliance reference implementations explore using this detailed walkthrough. turkish riot police have been using tear gas and water cannon to disperse protesters trying to enter a park cordoned off by police in istanbul. thousands have converged on gezi park, near the city's taksim square - which was a focus of unrest last month. protests against plans to redevelop the park grew into nationwide rallies against pm recep tayyip erdogan. on 15 june police expelled protesters occupying the park. a recent court ruling annulled the redevelopment plan. the administrative court said the government's plan to replace gezi park with a replica of an ottoman-era military barracks would not serve the public. it is not clear yet whether the government will appeal against the ruling. activists had called for a march on saturday to enter the park, which is sealed off. the governor of istanbul had warned that they would be confronted by police. five people died and thousands were injured in last month's wave of protests across turkey - the worst unrest the country had seen in 10 years of rule by mr erdogan. protesters have accused him of becoming increasingly authoritarian and trying to impose conservative islamic values on a secular state. a 20-year-old woman has been missing from montgomery county, pennsylvania for three days, after her car allegedly broke down on the side of the road. deirdre magolon was last seen leaving her royersford home around 6:40 and 7pm on friday. at 11:30pm that same night, authorities found magolon's 2005 black mazda 'abandoned and unoccupied on eastbound route 422 near king of prussia - about a 20 minute drive from her home. without a trace: deirdre magolon has been missing from montgomery county, pennsylvania for the last three days family members believe her car broke down, and says she didn't have a phone on her at the time. magolon hasn't been seen since, upper providence township police say. she has been described as 5-foot-5, with blonde hair and blue eyes and was last seen wearing a gray furry hooded jacket. depending on whom you ask, marijuana is a dangerous drug that should be kept illegal alongside heroin and pcp, or it's a miracle herb with a trove of medical benefits that the government is seeking to deny the public -- or something in between: a plant with medical uses and drawbacks, worth exploring. as the political debates over medical marijuana drag on, a small cadre of researchers continues to test inhaled marijuana for the treatment of pain, nausea and muscle spasms. all drugs have risks, they point out -- including ones in most americans' medicine cabinets, such as aspirin and other pain-relievers or antihistamines such as benadryl. doctors try to balance those risks against the potential for medical good -- why not for marijuana as well, they ask. the truth, these researchers say, is that marijuana has medical benefits -- for chronic-pain syndromes, cancer pain, multiple sclerosis, aids wasting syndrome and the nausea that accompanies chemotherapy -- and attempts to understand and harness these are being hampered. also, they add, science reveals that the risks of marijuana use, which have been thoroughly researched, are real but generally small. atlanta falcons wide receiver julio jones returned to practice on friday, per espn's vaughn mcclure. jones missed practice on both wednesday and thursday after being listed with a hamstring injury and a toe injury, but got in the ever-important friday session. doing so should cement his status for sunday, although it will likely be with a "questionable" designation. jones is on pace for a record 181 catches, a record 2,346 yards and 21 touchdowns over the course of a 16-game season. fantasy impact: jones has been the best wide receiver in the nfl for the first three weeks, but it didn't come without his body paying for the wear and tear. practicing on friday is a fantastic indication that jones will get into the lineup for a fourth straight week, although it's fair to wonder if the falcons will spread the ball around to take some of the weight off jones' shoulders. if jones sees the field, fantasy owners have no choice but to start him, as he is always a solid bet to be the top fantasy receiver in any given week regardless of matchup. leonard hankerson would get the start if jones sits, but that doesn't appear as likely on friday as it did on thursday. fox sports says they will not air any live anthem coverage from any other game except for the london contest between the miami dolphins and new orleans saints. last week, the network aired the national anthem from games as more than 250 players took a knee during the anthem to protest president trump calling for nfl players to be fired for what he says as disrespect to the flag. the tennessee titans and seattle seahawks chose not to even leave their respective lockers during the anthem. "as we have in previous broadcasts of nfl games from london, fox will show the national anthem as well as god save the queen live. as is standard procedure, regionalized coverage of nfl game airing on fox this sunday will not show the national anthem live; however, our cameras are always rolling and we will document the response of players and coaches on the field," fox said in a statement. on november 12, the relics of the blessed martyr vasyl velychkovsky, who headed the ugcc during its underground existence, will be brought to the patriarchal cathedral of the resurrection of christ of the ugcc in kyiv. the event dedicated to the commemoration of the blessed martyr will take place after the third liturgy, which begins at 11:00, the department of information of the ugcc reports. the faithful and guests of the cathedral will be able to find out about the life of blessed vasyl during the underground activity, his defiance of the regime of the then government, watch a scene from the prison life of the holy martyr, and also get inspired by the spiritual singing of the metanoya group. the special moment of the event will be the testimony of the family of the blessed vasyl - iryna kolomiets and cornelia petryshyna. the program of the event was developed by tatyana and oleg chiharivskys, spouses from lviv, who are engaged in the spread of worship of the blessed vasyl, in cooperation with the redemptorist sisters and the brothers of the kyivan three-saints' theological seminary. since 2001, families have chosen perfect memorials for their unique memorial products. year after year, continued support from our loyal customers and their referrals have helped the company grow into one of the most well-known memorial product companies. choosing a cremation urn or memorial product choosing a cremation urn or other memorial product from perfect memorials allows many special ways to memorialize your loved one. choose from a variety of products such as cremation urns, pet urns, cremation jewelry, outdoor memorials and other sympathy gifts. many of our products are uniquely crafted by skilled artisans, representing the uniqueness of our loved ones. have a question about a memorial product? we're committed to helping you choose the correct memorial product. call our customer care staff at 1-800-979-8767, live chat or email for any questions. the act brumbies have endorsed stephen moore's wallabies captaincy potential. coach stephen larkham said the 91-test hooker is the ''ideal man'' to lead australia to a successful world cup campaign next year. moore is expected to be unveiled as the wallabies' new captain on monday, taking charge of the team as it prepares for a three-test series against france and the build-up to the world cup in england. stephen moore takes on the rebels' pack on saturday night. credit:getty images outgoing test skipper ben mowen says he will be ''insanely jealous'' when the wallabies run out in the series opener in brisbane on saturday night, but insists he is ''content'' with his decision to quit the role to move his career to france at the end of the year. highly respected moore will get his chance to lead the wallabies almost a decade after starting his test career. larkham believes the 31-year-old is suited to a leadership role. lil wayne has had some interesting runs with advertising lately. it's been a few weeks and we're still scratching our heads when we think about his super bowl 50 spot featuring george washington. and remember those mountain dew commercials a few years back? all that being said, tunechi has been tabbed by samsung to be their de facto spokesman for the company's latest phone, the galaxy s7 and the ads are hilarious. up above, you can catch weezy delivering a baby elephant while parked on a couch next to wesley snipes. in the spot below check out wayne as he drinks tea, fights robots in outer space, canoes with wesley snipes, and surfs in thailand. in this one he drops a whole bottle of champagne on his phone and drops it in a fish tank to demonstrate its water proof ability. his friend with the competition's model is not so fortunate. inter milan will finish fourth in serie a this season. inter milan secured fourth place in the serie a table by beating empoli 2-1 at san siro on saturday. all three goals arrived before half-time, with mauro icardi reaching 16 for the season before croatian forward ivan perisic responded to manuel pucciarelli's equaliser. roberto mancini's men can no longer be caught by fellow europa league chasers fiorentina after building a seven-point gap over the tuscans, who have two games left to play. carlos bacca's penalty guided ac milan to a win. carlos bacca's first-half penalty proved enough to lift ac milan back into sixth place following a scrappy 1-0 victory over 10-man bologna. the rossoneri were last week dislodged from the final likely european berth by surprise package sassuolo, and cristian brocchi's men needed to react strongly at the stadio renato dall'ara. their task was made easier by amadou diawara, the bologna player who was sent off early in the game, and angelo da costa's foul on luiz adriano allowed bacca to convert from the spot. sassuolo can return to sixth with victory at relegation-threatened frosinone on sunday afternoon. swastikas and hate speech spray-painted in red defaced several properties in a manalapan neighborhood early thursday morning, according to the anti-defamation league. the words "kill the jews" were painted on a white-picket fence in the monmouth heights neighborhood and swastikas were on 10 to 15 objects including cars, electrical boxes and houses, said jeffrey salkin, adl new jersey community director at the anti-defamation league. monmouth county police and the monmouth county prosecutor's office are investigating the incident. salkin condemned the hate speech and said the organization was saddened by the incident. "the swastika is a universal symbol of hate, meant to instill fear and intimidation. by targeting multiple locations the perpetrators in this case intended to send a message to the entire community," he said in a statement. the jewish federation of monmouth county coincidentally held a workshop on security wednesday night as yom kippur and rosh hashanah are approaching and will draw thousands of people to local synagogues, said keith krivitzky, executive director at the jewish federation. "i'm sure as a result to this there will be heightened security," he said. the police department and prosecutor's office could not be reached for comment thursday afternoon. there are only 10 albino redwoods in the world, and one of them is in danger of being cut down to make room for a commuter rail system. as reuters reports, a 52-foot albino chimera coast redwood in cotati, california, stands 12 feet away from a planned stretch of the sonoma-marin area rail transit line, which begins construction next month. "to lose this tree would be an absolutely huge loss to science and the ability to study albinism in redwoods," arborist tom stapleton told reuters. only about 200 of the white-needle evergreens are known to exist in the world, all of them in california. but far more rare are redwoods such as this tree, an albino chimera coast redwood with two sets of dna that produce multicolored needles. "they're often called the phantoms of the forest," albino coast redwood expert sandy lydon told reuters. northern california arborists are fighting city officials and the rail agency to make sure this phantom of the forest doesn't become an actual ghost. date written: september 17, 2015 abstract greece has been witnessing higher death rates, suicides, increased prostitution, emigration and the splitting up of families, rationing of bank withdrawals and capital controls in the last few years. this paper studies the greek crisis as evidenced by its balance of payments over the last 18 years. it places this analysis in the background of an economic union. we find that the greek state is an example of acute suffering as well as shame thrust upon a people once their industries had been destroyed through inherent disadvantages in terms of trade. they need to look out for themselves and formulate appropriate tax policies. we owe them squaring subsidies as their dues. their leaders need to take the moral high ground of ecological balance to show their people are on a better track. a gandhism inspired action may be an appropriate response to neo-imperialism. the russian icon as a phenomenon was discovered only in the early 20th century when restorers learned to remove centuries-old grime and candle soot from the surface. before that the icon had been considered ancient gloomy art, but this all changed when the bright and shining paintings managed to break free from the dark layers of old dirt, grime and varnish. the golden background of icons is a symbol of the spiritual world and divine radiance. it conveys the magnificence of the heavenly kingdom where there is no night. that is why the folds and parts of the garments of christ, the virgin mary and the saints were painted with gold. sometimes the gold color was replaced with yellow paint, but the meaning remained the same. above: archangel michael, late 13th century left : saint george, the main icon of yuriev monastery in novgorod, 11-12th century. melvyn bragg and guests discuss the causes and effects of the highest global temperatures in the last 65m years, when arctic sea surfaces reached up to 23 c for c100,000 years. melvyn bragg and guests discuss the high temperatures that marked the end of the paleocene and start of the eocene periods, about 50m years ago. over c1000 years, global temperatures rose more than 5 c on average and stayed that way for c100,000 years more, with the surface of seas in the arctic being as warm as those in the subtropics. there were widespread extinctions, changes in ocean currents, and there was much less oxygen in the sea depths. the rise has been attributed to an increase of carbon dioxide and methane in the atmosphere, though it is not yet known conclusively what the source of those gases was. one theory is that a rise in carbon dioxide, perhaps from volcanoes, warmed up the globe enough for warm water to reach the bottom of the oceans and so release methane from frozen crystals in the sea bed. the higher the temperature rose and the longer the water was warm, the more methane was released. scientists have been studying a range of sources from this long period, from ice samples to fossils, to try to understand more about possible causes. with dame jane francis professor of palaeoclimatology at the british antarctic survey mark maslin professor of palaeoclimatology at university college london and tracy aze lecturer in marine micropaleontology at the university of leeds producer: simon tillotson. when asked about his treatment by mr murdoch's newspapers on tuesday, mr rudd shrugged it off. "in terms of his views, and his determination to see mr abbott elected as prime minister, and his determination to see the end of myself, it's a free country," he said. but mr rudd upped the ante on wednesday evening, calling for mr abbott to come clean on any discussions he had conducted with mr murdoch about broadband. "i've only just been looking back on the files today and discovered that in fact mr abbott's nbn policy was launched at the fox studios here in sydney. i would like to hear some answers to what discussions mr abbott may have had with mr murdoch on the future of australia's national broadband network," mr rudd said. on sunday, fairfax newspapers ran a comment piece by paul sheehan alleging mr murdoch's news corp was attacking the government because it saw labor's national broadband network as a commercial threat to its subscription television network foxtel. middlesbrough's summer of change is set to continue with one in and one out ahead of saturday's visit of sheffield united. dutch midfielder marten de roon has been given the go-ahead to complete a return to atalanta after boro accepted an offer of 15m euros. and he is set to be replaced in garry monk's squad by chelsea midfielder lewis baker. the 22-year-old is heading to teesside on a two-year loan from stamford bridge. baker has had spells with sheffield wednesday, mk dons and vitesse and has been given permission to leave the bridge for another extended loan stint. he fits the criteria of being young and hungry which monk has spoken of introducing to his squad. and the departure of de roon comes just 12 months after he left the serie a club to try his luck in the premier league. middlesbrough paid 10m euros for the holland international last year, so his pending sale sees the club make a profit. the 26-year-old has been the subject of interest from a number of clubs since january, with watford and even manchester united linked. but atalanta have shown the most interest and, after plenty of negotiating, he is now set to return to the club where he really made his name. monk is still looking to add further to his squad before the transfer window closes. he is still keen on birmingham defender ryan shotton. while many recognize today, thursday, may 5, 2011, as the national day of prayer, i am writing to recognize it as the 2011 national day of reason. the national day of reason, observed by millions of people in this country and around the world since 2003, celebrates the application of reason and the positive impacts it has had on humanity. reason and rational discourse have the power to improve living conditions around the world and cultivate intelligent, moral, and ethical interactions among people. reason and rational thinking have made our country great. the constitution of the united states of america is based upon the philosophies developed during the historical age of reason and the idea that citizens engaging in rational discourse and decision-making can govern themselves. the constitution also contains a strong separation of church and state, making it clear that government should continue to be built on reason. our nation faces many problems -- ending two wars, creating jobs, educating our children, tackling our budget, and protecting our safety net. although the gravity of these issues may drive many to prayer, the way we will solve them is through the application of reason. an 18-year-old man had been arrested in the us city of chicago on suspicion of plotting a bomb attack. the fbi said adel daoud had planned to detonate a car bomb outside a bar in the city. he had been tracked by the fbi after posting comments online about violent jihad and the killing of americans, the associated press reports. he was arrested on friday in a sting operation, where agents posing as extremists gave him a phoney bomb. officials said the bomb was inert and that the public was never in danger. mr daoud has been charged with attempting to use a weapon of mass destruction and attempting to damage and destroy a building with an explosive, ap reports. the charge carries a maximum sentence of life in jail. us law enforcement officials have increasingly carried out "sting" operations in an effort to stop potential terror suspects. there has been a number of convictions based on stings in recent years, but muslim groups and civil rights groups have expressed concern at the use of such tactics. thursday evening we had our initial taste test of baconnaise. i was a little concerned over how to try it after so many weeks of anticipation while waiting on our back-ordered delivery. we decided to go with a twist on the classic blt. after all, what could be better than bacon squared? our combination was lightly toasted multi-grain bread, fresh sliced vine ripe tomatoes, mixed greens, bacon, and baconnaise. i was careful to spread some of the baconnaise all the way to the edge to make sure i got some bites without bacon while evaluating. now all that was left to do was get busy tasting. i must say, initial testing was inconclusive. i vacillated between "i like bbq sauce better" and "quick, give me a spoon or straw". denine liked the bacon flavor and was happy that it was not too smokey. we both agreed that it would be cool if actual bits of bacon were part of the product. yes, more tasting will be required. in the meantime, deliveries must be made to others who are waiting on delivery and a second order is on the way. our maiden jar is safely nestled on the top shelf of the fridge at this very moment. baconnaise fever has landed in our city. get the latest news and videos for this game daily, no spam, no fuss. dynasty warriors 9, the latest in the long line of japanese hack-and-slash games, has been revealed. publisher koei tecmo has said the series is going open-world for the first time with this ninth entry. you can take a look at a japanese teaser trailer below. don't be confused by the "8" on the title screen--in japan, numbered dynasty warriors games are one behind their western releases. according to siliconera, producer akihiro suzuki has described dynasty warriors 9 as a "rebirth" for the series, with developer omega force aiming to boil down the whole of china into one in-game map. all 83 playable characters from dynasty warriors 8 will return, in addition to a selection of new fighters; one of these is zhou cang, a character from the historical novel romance of the three kingdoms, the book on which dynasty warriors is based. koei tecmo had previously said in january that a "big announcement" regarding dynasty warriors would come this year. the last core game in the series to be released was dynasty warriors 8 in 2013, though that has since received a pair of expansion packs. more recently, we got a zelda-themed spinoff, hyrule warriors, for wii u and 3ds. further dynasty warriors 9 details, including a release date and which platforms the game will launch on, are currently thin on the ground, but gamespot will keep you up-to-date with new information as we get it. one of the department's explanations for not telling people about the aerial surveillance program was that it already makes use of security cameras in compton city parks and at the gateway town center. but that's an insufficient justification for a program of such enormous breadth. maybe citizens and officials would all have agreed that increased security was worth sending a camera-strapped cessna flying over every inch of the city taking pictures of residents' backyard barbecues. but there are indications that the sheriff's department knew very well that people would not be happy with this. one department official involved with the project told the center for investigative reporting that it was kept confidential to avoid complaints. "a lot of people do have a problem with the eye in the sky, the big brother," he said. social fixer is filled with features to make your facebook experience better. filter posts in the news feed by content, author, link url, and more built-in filter subscriptions let you just pick a filter and use it without knowing how it works. pre-defined filters include hiding sponsored posts, political posts, things your friends like, and much more. hide posts you've read and are done with, so they don't appear in the news feed anymore. select from a list of display tweaks to customize the interface, or write your own with css. force fb to stay on the most recent feed hide parts of the page you don't want to see, like panels in the left or right columns. comment navigator lets you expand all comments and replies to a post, and highlight comments that are older than an age you specify. tips point you to built-in facebook settings and options and suggest values to make your experience better. stealth mode hides like buttons, comment areas, etc so you can browse facebook without accidentally interacting with posts you don't intend to. show full timestamps on posts, rather than relative times like "1 hr ago". anonymize for screenshots with one click - hide friend names, group names, profile pictures, etc. if you want to share a conversation or screenshot but not your privacy, anonymize first. filters and tweaks are updated regularly and automatically available to you to use without any additional work. features will be added continuously to make your facebook experience as great as possible! the australian widow of a passenger who died on board the missing malaysia airlines flight mh370 is suing the airline for compensation. jennifer chong, 48, from kew, has launched legal action in the victorian supreme court over the death of her husband of 23 years, chong ling tan. jennifer chong, whose husband chong ling tan was on missing flight mh370, is suing malaysia airlines for compensation. credit:eddie jim in her writ filed with the court, mrs chong said her husband had been seated in business class seat 1c on the doomed march 8, 2014, flight from kuala lumpur to beijing when it disappeared. mrs chong said that in late january 2015, the malaysian department of civil aviation declared the plane's disappearance had been an accident and there were no survivors. we're very sorry to have to announce that muse's forthcoming shows in oslo, stockholm and malmo have been cancelled as matt has broken two bones in his foot. the band have therefore made the difficult decision to cancel these gigs as they feel that they will not be able to do justice to their live show and the fans who have bought tickets with matt performing on crutches. muse would like to apologise to all their fans who have tickets to these shows. refunds will be available from the point of purchase. matt's progress will be monitored over the next few days, but the remaining dates on the tour are still scheduled to go ahead as planned. as soon as we have any news it will be posted on the muse website, facebook and twitter accounts. the daughter of a former us congressman who survived the holocaust has returned a distinguished award to hungary in protest at its decision to honour a writer accused of anti-semitism. katrina lantos swett, daughter of hungarian-born tom lantos, had been honoured for work with minorities. she said granting the same award to writer zsolt bayer had "sullied" the knight's cross of the order of merit. she said he "deserved censure not honour for his loathsome writings". ms lantos swett is the latest of about 100 recipients of hungarian state awards to have returned them in protest at the decision to honour bayer. she has said she hopes her actions will make the hungarian government think twice about associating itself with the newspaper columnist, who has compared the country's large roma population to animals and said all muslims older than 14 were "potential murderers". the writer has also written many articles condemned by critics as anti-semitic. 'exemplary' katrina lantos swett had received the knight's cross in 2009 for her work in setting up the tom lantos institute in budapest which focuses on minority rights. the us holocaust memorial museum in washington earlier urged hungary's prime minister viktor orban and president janos ader, who respectively nominated and granted the award to bayer to "immediately" rescind it. bayer, who is a member of mr orban's fidesz party, received the award for his "exemplary journalistic activities", which have included writing about the hungarian minority in transylvania and the fate of hungarian prisoners in the soviet union. last year, he said he regretted some of the language denounced as racist or anti-semitic. the united nations syria envoy staffan de mistura met wednesday in moscow with russian defence minister sergei shoigu ahead of a fresh round of talks aimed at ending syria's six-year war. the officials gathered to "discuss ways of moving from de-escalation zones towards a more stable political settlement in syria," de mistura was quoted as saying by a defence ministry statement. russia, a key backer of syrian president bashar al-assad, has played a major role in the war and in diplomatic efforts to create and monitor four safe zones across the battle-scarred country. russia agreed during talks i n astana with iran and turkey -- who back opposing sides in the conflict -- to create the zones in the northern idlib province, in central homs, the damascus suburb of east ghouta and in southern syria. violence has drastically decreased in the zones since their establishment this year, but conflict is still raging elsewhere in syria, including a us-led aerial and ground assault on jihadists groups in the country's northeast. the un envoy said last month he hopes to convene a new round of syria talks in geneva in the coming weeks. he has already hosted several previous rounds of negotiations, with the fate of assad a key sticking point. premier gladys berejiklian has pointed to the franchising of sydney's ferry system as evidence her government is not shielding blue-ribbon liberal areas from the privatisation of services. an industrial battle erupted last week after transport minister andrew constance made the surprise announcement he would privatise the operation of buses in sydney's inner west, bringing them under the same model that is used in most of western sydney. gladys berejiklian talks to technicians at the sydney institute of marine science. credit:aap at the same time, mr constance said a new "b-line" bus service through the lower north shore and northern beaches would be run by the government operator, state transit. asked on sunday whether, if the privatisation of buses in the inner west proved a success, she would also privatise those in the eastern suburbs and north shore, ms berejiklian said: "i don't want to rule anything in or out at this stage. vacuuming and scrubbing the floor are both enough exercise to protect your heart and extend your life, a global study has shown. scientists found that 30 minutes of activity per day, or 150 minutes per week, reduced the risk of death from any cause by 28 per cent and rates of heart disease by a fifth. but it was not necessary to run, swim, or work out in the gym, said the researchers writing in the lancet journal. of the more than 130,000 people from 17 countries who took part in the international study, fewer than 3 per cent who achieved high levels of activity did so through leisure pursuits. in contrast almost 40 per cent of highly active participants benefited from commuting, having a physical job, or domestic chores. two months after the heartbleed bug was discovered, at least 300,000 servers remain vulnerable to the exploit. heartbleed, discovered by a google engineer, caused widespread panic and a furious round of server patching by companies worldwide. the security kink impacts openssl, an open-source software for encrypting information across the web, and, if exploited, can leak account log-in details and passwords. what made this bug different: its inherent nature within the openssl framework, which is used by thousands of websites, left huge numbers of servers on the web exposed. once heartbleed was publicized, security researcher robert david graham from errata security found that roughly 600,000 servers were vulnerable to the security flaw. one month later, half of these servers had been patched and protected against heartbleed, said graham, and only 318,239 were left exposed. however, two months after heartbleed, 309,197 servers remain unprotected -- a patch rate plummeting from double to single percentage digits as only 9,042 new servers have been patched in the last month. the security researcher says this stagnation means people have stopped even trying to patch systems, and there should be a "slow decrease" in the number of vulnerable systems as older servers are replaced. however, now that the top few thousand companies online have protected themselves, it is unlikely the smaller firms that have not already done so will follow suit. "even a decade from now, though, i still expect to find thousands of systems, including critical ones, still vulnerable," graham says. what does this mean for account holders? if you're concerned about account details, used mcafee's free checker to find out if a website is vulnerable. better still, use a different password for each of your online accounts. this story originally appeared as "heartbleed: over 300,000 servers still exposed" on zdnet. in the midst of a power surge up the standings and renewed playoff hopes, the toronto blue jays reportedly remain focused on their outlook for next season. the blue jays have contacted former detroit tigers general manager dave dombrowski, according to bob elliott of the toronto sun, regarding the club's soon-to-be vacant president's job. paul beeston is set to step down from his position as the blue jays' president at the end of the season after almost 40 years in the organization. several prominent names have been speculated to have interest in the high-profile role, including baltimore orioles executive dan duquette and chicago white sox vice president of baseball operations kenny williams. dombrowski, 59, was released from his contract by detroit last week after nearly 14 seasons with the club to "pursue other career opportunities," according to tigers owner mike ilitch. according to league sources, wolves president of operations flip saunders has had a conversation with the celtics about garnett. who initiated the talks, in whom the celtics might have an interest on the wolves and whether garnett would waive his no-trade clause to come to minnesota are unknown. one source characterized the talks as saunders just doing his due diligence in the event that a new contract can't be worked out with restricted free agent center . pekovic and garnett are not mutually exclusive. in fact, it could be easy to see the two co-exist. but the source was adamant that garnett was more of a contingency plan. previous research in economics shows that paying the agent based on performance induces the agent to exert more effort thereby enhancing productivity. on the other hand, research in psychology argues that performance-based financial incentives may inhibit creativity and innovation. in a controlled laboratory experiment, we provide evidence that the combination of tolerance for early failure and reward for long-term success is effective in motivating innovation. subjects under such an incentive scheme explore more and are more likely to discover a novel business strategy than subjects under fixed-wage and standard pay-for-performance incentive schemes. we also find evidence that the threat of termination can undermine incentives for innovation, while golden parachutes can alleviate these innovation-reducing effects. our results suggest that appropriately designed incentives are useful in motivating creativity and innovation. a british man has admitted possessing a bomb-making document on a memory card. mounir rarmoul-bouhadjar entered the plea at the old bailey on tuesday but it can only be reported now reporting restrictions have been lifted. the 26-year-old was cleared of another charge of possessing an improperly obtained passport and will be sentenced at a later date. he was arrested with erol incedal, who is charged with terrorism-related offences and goes on trial next week. mr incedal, also 26, denies charges of possessing a terrorist document and engaging in conduct in preparation of terrorist acts. another order had initially been in place preventing the press from naming rarmoul-bouhadjar, previously referred to as cd, and mr incedal, who had been known as ab, but this was subsequently lifted. part of the case is to be held behind closed doors following a ruling in the court of appeal. it came after a challenge by media organisations against an "unprecedented" decision by mr justice nicol that the trial should take place entirely in private. prosecutors had claimed their application for a fully-secret trial was in the interests of national security. appeal judges said that the "core" of the trial could be partly heard in secret but that parts must be heard in public. danang, vietnam - in the wake of a court challenge against a controversial quebec law banning people from wearing face coverings while giving or receiving public services, prime minister justin trudeau says the federal government is actively studying ways in which it might also weigh in. trudeau's remarks on quebec's bill 62 are the strongest indication he's given yet about the federal government's position on the law, which has been widely panned across the country for perceived discrimination against muslim women. two groups filed a lawsuit in the province this week claiming the bill is unconstitutional and discriminates against an already marginalized population. the quebec government has defended the law on the grounds that it is in line with the charter of rights and freedoms and ensures security for all. speaking in vietnam, trudeau offered his first remarks on the bill since the court challenge was launched. he says the government is mulling ways in which it could potentially take action against the legislation. sky sports sources understand newcastle united have made an improved offer to sign lille's france international mathieu debuchy. the right-back has been a long-term target for the magpies and lille rejected an offer from the premier league club earlier this season. lille were initially reluctant to let debuchy go until a replacement had been signed, but the capture of djibril sidibe from troyes last week appears to have accelerated the situation. newcastle are now trying to push through a deal for the defender and have upped their bid in an attempt to get the transfer done this week. debuchy is keen to move to st james' park and his close friend, and former lille team-mate yohan cabaye, revealed earlier this week that he is hoping the deal will happen. the 27-year-old has three years left on his contract and has also been linked with inter milan, but newcastle are favourites to secure his signature. as blackberry continues to execute its turnaround plan, we remain focused on driving efficiencies across our global workforce. this means finding new ways to enable us to capitalize on growth opportunities, while driving toward sustainable profitability across all parts of our business. as a result, a small number of employees have been impacted in waterloo and sunrise, fl. it also means that blackberry is actively recruiting in those areas of our business that will drive growth. for those employees that have recently left the company, we know that they have worked hard on behalf of our company and we are grateful for their commitment and contributions. the layoffs aren't a complete surprise, however, given that the company has recently begun transitioning to the android os in favor of its bb10 operating system. update: contrary to mobile syrup's initial report, blackberry has since clarified that only around 200 people in total from both waterloo and sunrise will be sacked. among them, notably, is bbm co-founder gary klassen. google has announced that the chromecast app line-up will include family-friendly video games and two new entertainment channels. classic titles such as wheel of fortune, scrabble blitz, and monopoly dash are being made available, along with dance and trivia games like big web quiz, which utilizes google's knowledge graph to generate questions. apps can be downloaded from google play or the ios app store allowing phones and tablets to be used as controllers for chromecast's library of games, removing the need for extraneous peripherals. the actual game board will be displayed on the tv. those who prefer more sedentary entertainment can opt for videos from showtime anytime and starz. in a bid to lure new subscribers, google is also providing two free months of hulu plus and 90 days of google play all access music to anyone with a chromecast. at least one person has been killed and about 20 injured when a train carriage fell on to its side following a derailment close to the belgian capital brussels, railway officials say. the accident happened as the train was departing leuven station at a slow speed heading towards the capital. emergency services were quick to arrive at the scene of the crash, which happened at 12:20 gmt on saturday. the damaged carriage could be seen on its side part way down a slope. image copyright afp image caption the derailed carriage could be seen on a slope services between leuven and brussels have been suspended, officials say. last june at least three people were killed and nine injured in a train crash in the town of hermalle-sous-huy, near liege. in february 2010, 18 people were killed when two passenger trains collided at halle, south-west of the capital, brussels. the development of cognitive enhancers from plants possessing antioxidants has gained much attention due to the role of oxidative stress-induced cognitive impairment. thus, this study aimed to determine the effect of ginger extract, or zingiber officinale, on the cognitive function of middle-aged, healthy women. sixty participants were randomly assigned to receive a placebo or standardized plant extract at doses of 400 and 800 mg once daily for 2 months. they were evaluated for working memory and cognitive function using computerized battery tests and the auditory oddball paradigm of event-related potentials at three different time periods: before receiving the intervention, one month, and two months. we found that the ginger-treated groups had significantly decreased p300 latencies, increased n100 and p300 amplitudes, and exhibited enhanced working memory. therefore, ginger is a potential cognitive enhancer for middle-aged women. a drug containing cannabis to treat ms sufferers has been made legal in spain. the tongue spray, sativex, is proven to reduce muscle spasms in people who suffer from multiple sclerosis and whose condition does not respond to other pain killers. british company gw pharmaceuticals got the green light to distribute the drug in the uk last month, and have now been approved here with the help of spanish partners almirall. marketers now hope to get backing from other eu countries like france, germany and italy. the spanish ministry of health will now seek pricing approval for the drug, which is expected to be awarded towards the end of the year. health minister trinidad jimenez said the drug will be carefully prescribed and the health authority has ruled out the possibility of cannabis being used to treat other diseases like cancer. a rival poll, however, released this week by the rail, tram and bus union suggests a grim mood among frontline staff. according to the survey of 1040 bus and rail workers, 50 per cent say the quality of public transport in nsw has deteriorated in the past four years. a bit more than 20 per cent say it has improved, while almost 30 per cent of workers say it has stayed the same. "she has put services back on, you can't argue that point," the nsw secretary at the rtbu, alex claassens said. "but we believe that security in the network has gotten worse," mr claassens said. "and if you didn't have a liberal government you would still have had ticket windows," he said, referring to the impending closure of dedicated rail ticket seller positions. the survey results also suggest staff members weary of organisational change. almost 60 per cent of staff said they had no confidence in management. beijing: after complaints and clear examples of bowing to chinese censorship diktats, linkedin says it may have acted too hastily in friending china's government. linkedin executives said they were reconsidering their policies, after seven months of censoring content from china deemed too sensitive. linkedin is thinking twice about its adoption of china's aggressive censorship. credit:reuters "we do want to get this right, and we are strongly considering changing our policy so that content from our chinese members that is not allowed in china will still be viewed globally," hani durzy, a spokesman for the california-based company said. the professional social networking site is the latest to wrestle with the moral quandaries that come with doing business in china amid the government's paranoia about the internet. facebook, twitter and google are largely blocked here. relatives of fugitive serbian war crimes suspect say they have had no contact with him for about seven years ratko mladic family files request for him to be declared dead the family of the fugitive serbian war crimes suspect ratko mladic has filed a request for him to be legally declared dead. milos saljic, the mladic family's lawyer, said the motion was submitted to belgrade's first municipal court "based on the fact that the family has had no information nor contacts with mr mladic for about seven years and that he was a very sick man". mladic was indicted 15 years ago for genocide in the srebrenica massacre of 8,000 muslim men and the 43-month siege of sarajevo. the european union has made his arrest a key condition of further progress in serbian membership. cracks have appeared on a u-shaped glass-bottomed skywalk built around a mountain cliff in china, sending tourists fleeing off the structure, chinese media reported. tourists walk on the glass skywalk on yuntai mountain youtube internet users posted pictures online showing cracks on the reinforced glass flooring, which is suspended more than 1,000 metres above sea level, around a cliff on yuntai mountain in henan province, the legal evening news reported. the photos sparked an outcry, with internet users alleging that inferior construction material had been used to build the skywalk, which opened to public only about two weeks ago. officials said the cracks were caused by tourists who had dropped a thermos flask on the glass. bangkok: the united nations has called on philippine authorities to investigate controversial president rodrigo duterte for murder after he bragged about killing people last week. zeid raad al-hussein, the un's high commissioner for human rights, also urged investigations into the "appalling epidemic of extra-judicial killings" under mr duterte's deadly crackdown on drugs that has left almost 6000 people dead. in unprecedented criticism of a serving national leader by the world body, prince zeid said children as young as five have become victims of the violence, adding he was surprised there has been no sign of prosecution of those responsible. "the perpetrators must be brought to justice, sending a strong message that violence, killings and human rights violations will not be tolerated by the state and that no one is above the law," prince zeid said. earlier this week, we reported on efforts by an indiana state legislator who was interested in getting creationism inserted into the state's science classrooms. he managed to get a modified bill, one that was less sectarian but still overtly promoted religion, passed by the state's senate. yesterday, however, the leader of the indiana house voiced unease about having the state wade into an area that the supreme court has declared an unconstitutional promotion of religion. many similar bills are introduced in state legislatures each year and, in cases where their sponsors speak to the press, they tend to reveal a great deal of ignorance regarding both science and the law. in terms of science, they tend to misunderstand the meaning of the term "theory," think that there are multiple scientific explanations for life's diversity, or suggest evolution is a theory for life's origin. the indiana bill's sponsor, dennis kruse, appears to get all of these wrong. when it comes to the legal issues, many of the sponsors of these bills seem to be blissfully unaware of precedents, including supreme court decisions, that have determined that teaching creationism is an unconstitutional promotion of religion. here, kruse is an exception: he is aware of the precedents, but is hoping his bill will prompt a lawsuit that will get the supreme court to turn its back on its own precedents. the house speaker, however, has now said challenging supreme court decisions is "someplace we don't need to go," suggesting he will not bring the bill up for a vote. scienceinsider, in covering this decision, suggested national media attention to the bill had made it politically toxic. that, in turn, suggests that continued coverage of similar bills can play a vital role in promoting accurate science education. that's all from our coverage of uganda's presidential and parliamentary elections for today. the long delay in getting the vote going in some places was criticised by the leader of the commonwealth observer mission, ex-nigerian president olusegun obasanjo, as "absolutely inexcusable". there was also a lot of criticism after access to some social media sites was blocked while the voting was going on. president yoweri museveni said this was for security reasons. and at the end of the day, we had the story of opposition candidate kizza beisgye's brief detention - the second time this has happened to him within a week. but there was also a lot of excitement from ugandans about the vote, many of whom proudly posted photos of their inked thumbs on social media. the authorities have until saturday to announce the results. and we leave you with this photo of people in kampala still queuing at a polling station at sunset. jovani "fabbbyyy" guillen announced earlier today that he's looking to join a new team and is fielding offers in the north american league championship series or north american challenger series. with phil "jynthe" vu set to be the starter for team liquid in the north american regional finals starting this saturday against team envy, it appears that this could be the end of the road for fabbbyyy and team liquid's working relationship. editor's picks celtics forward jonas jerebko buys renegades renegades has found a new home with boston celtics forward jonas jerebko, who joins the ranks of rick fox and shaquille o'neal as nba stars invested in esports. new lawsuit targets steam, alleges patent infringement british telecommunications has filed a federal lawsuit, alleging that the game dev has infringed several patents through popular steam's marketplace distribution platform. 1 related fabbbyyy, who replaced longtime starting ad chae "piglet" gwang-jin on the team liquid roster during the middle of the season, had an up-and-down rookie split for the club. while he was effective in the previous meta, the proclaimed "gatekeeper of challenger" had trouble in the playoffs against counter logic gaming. he was even subbed out in the series, replaced by jynthe, a player with no previous record in the professional scene. while liquid would go on to lose the series 3-1, jynthe did outperform fabbbyy in the two games he played, even playing a starring role in tl's sole map victory in the third set. french media are describing as a "miracle" the unscathed survival of an 18-month-old infant who fell from a sixth-floor apartment. the boy was left unattended by his parents when he somehow fell, then bounced off the awning of a cafe below. he had a further stroke of luck when a passing doctor saw him fall and caught him before he hit the ground, witnesses were quoted as saying. the doctor found no injuries but he was taken to hospital for a check-up. initial reports, picked up by the bbc, suggested the baby was a girl, but he was later established to be a boy. his dramatic fall and rescue took place on the corner of the cours de vincennes and the rue des pyrenees, in the 20th arrondissement, late on monday afternoon. a man living in a building opposite the apartment told france info he saw the baby playing by the window with a girl a few years older. they were coming and going from the window, he said, and he had a feeling something bad might happen. the man who caught the boy was walking by with his wife and son, who spotted the boy falling. another witness told le figaro that the doctor positioned himself by the awning and caught the boy in his arms after he bounced off it. the witness, francois, said the boy cried a bit at first but quickly calmed down. the doctor, identified as philippe benseniot by france info, said it was pure luck. "i was there at the right time," he told france info. correction 4 november 2010: following french media, we initially reported that the baby was a girl, but have corrected the story to say he was a boy. berlin - police say a man angered by a family feud has set off explosives outside his house in germany, killing himself and wounding seven people in a small village. police spokesman thomas rodemer said that following an argument inside his home in homberg village in hesse state, the 49-year-old man drove away in his car, then returned and blew himself up inside the vehicle parked outside the house. the seven people slightly wounded by debris from the explosion included family members, neighbors and two police officers who had been called to settle the family argument. the blast also damaged neighboring homes. rodemer said the bomber had a license to use explosives and that police are investigating the case. the man's name was not released in keeping with germany's privacy law. the bethel hospital was founded in 1713 by mary chapman. it was the first purpose built asylum in the country. it was supposedly meant to only be humane treatments used here even though straight jackets, handcuffs and padlocks were recorded on the inventory. during the 19th century its believed that one third of the inmates left here cured, sadly it seems a high number stayed here until they passed away. in the 1970's parts of the site started to close, by 1995 all of the site had closed with plans of redevelopment. it seems most of this went ahead but for some reason a small part got left, which is what you see here today. remember you can follow me on the social networks below or add your email in the box for notifications of new posts on here. a man charged after ringing police communications and telling them he "loves the new zealand police" is confident the charges will be sorted out because he was always positive and complimentary in his drunken phone calls. mohammad ali mayat baloch appeared in the north shore district court today charged with two counts of misusing a telephone, breach of bail and drink driving. the hearing had to be adjourned because his lawyer had been unable to play the cd of the calls baloch made to police. outside court, baloch said he got in the habit of ringing emergency services when he was drunk. he would tell them how much he loved them and what a good job they were doing and tell them jokes. he struck the wrong operator one night though and the woman told him she would only listen to his joke if he gave her his address. it was the beginning of the end of baloch's love affair with the police. the self-professed joker was tracked down and arrested but he said everyone at the police station looked after him because they knew him from his phone calls. he said he had a genuine respect for police after being raised in pakistan in a military family. he hoped the charges would be reduced as he had not threatened police and he was always cheerful and positive. "we should get the bad stuff down, but it's also extremely important that people are able to find good information, that when people are feeling isolated, that when they go online, they find a community of hope, not a community of harm," said anthony house, a senior manager for public policy and communications at google to a home affairs select committee hearing in the uk. on top of surfacing these ads, google is also promising to make counter radicalization videos easier to find on youtube. last month, government officials met with top tech companies in silicon valley to seek help in fighting isis on the digital front. facebook, for example, has stated that it hopes to use its system of flagging suicidal users to also flag users who show signs of radicalization. deandre levy has spent part of his time the past few months speaking out against domestic violence and sexual assault. now, the detroit lions linebacker is trying to do something about it. he's partnering with the detroit hustles harder clothing line to sell "our issue" t-shirts. all of the proceeds from the shirts will go to the enough said program in detroit. the program, which is a collaboration between multiple organizations and the wayne county prosecutor's office, tries to raise "private sector funding to test more than 11,000 forgotten rape kits, investigate the crimes and prosecute the resulting cases, thus securing justice and closure for victims and ensuring a safer community for everyone," according to the organization's website. levy first spoke up about this issue in the spring, when he wrote a first-person essay on the players tribune challenging other athletes to step up and speak out about sexual assault and domestic violence. he has become one of the more outspoken players in the league over the past year, taking on sexual assault, the nfl and the league's brain trauma research. levy has also offered support for colin kaepernick's protest, which is trying to bring attention to racial inequality in the united states. on monday, troy vincent, the nfl executive vice president of football operations, commended levy on his efforts to try and end domestic violence and sexual assault. earlier this year, facebook began flagging fake news posts and promoting more legitimate content over sketchy articles. it also began deprioritizing content shared by individuals who post over 50 times per day when research showed that in those cases, the shared posts often included misinformation and sensationalism. in a more direct challenge of fake news, the site recently began publishing fact checkers' takes on articles labeled as potentially fake and making it easier to get to different articles related to any given post. the company has already banned fake news websites from generating ad revenue on facebook and blocked ads that link to fake news stories. it says its latest update is to take the fight against fake news a step further. "today's update helps to disrupt the economic incentives and curb the spread of false news, which is another step towards building a more informed community on facebook," it said. several thousand colombian farmers have marched through the streets of bogota to demand that the government comply with agreements reached in september. farmers' leaders said the colombian government had breached 72 of 88 points agreed to end the previous protest. "things are as bad or worse than they were before," said one of their leaders, cesar pachon. in august, the farmers had said the government's agricultural policies were driving them into bankruptcy. they said that free trade agreements with the european union and the united states, which had recently come into force, were flooding the market with agricultural products at prices they were unable to match. the farmers also complained that rising fuel and production costs had turned small-scale farming into a loss-making business. the protest ended after the government announced measures - including better prices for agricultural products and more access to loans - to ease the pressure on farmers. the government also promised more protection from cheaper, imported products. but cesar pachon - the head of dignidades de colombia movement - said on tuesday that small-scale farmers in colombia were still selling their products at below cost price. he said imports were still flooding the market and that farmers owed a great deal of money to banks. colombia's agriculture minister ruben dario lizarralde denied the government had failed to comply with the agreements. he said the government was making a big effort to meet the farmers' demands. he added that the government had spent a lot of time meeting small-scale farmers to discuss their needs. colombian health workers joined tuesday's march in the capital to protest against proposed changes to the law that regulates social security. co-owner chris penny won best barista and supreme crew member for his work at sydenham cafe hello sunday. cantabrians have made their choices for the best in the hospitality business. top honours went to dux dine, hello sunday and baretta. voters for the press people's choice awards voted online as part of the industry-run christchurch hospitality awards. the people voted dux dine as best restaurant for the second year running. hello sunday won people's choice best cafe and baretta took home best bar and best wine list. the industry side of the awards encouraged business owners to recognise their peers, whether they poured pints or flat whites. winners were announced at an awards ceremony on sunday night. supreme establishment of the year went to roots in lyttelton, which has been collecting accolades since it opened. chef giulio sturla has made a name for the place with his creative takes on local produce. the industry also named boo radleys on victoria st as supreme emerging establishment and three boys brewery supreme supplier. the awards continued for hello sunday, which also won the industry's choice for best cafe. co-owner chris penny also took out supreme crew member and barista of the year. a british woman had to pick her own head up off the ground after badly breaking her neck in a horrific fall from a horse, according to reports. the daily express newspaper reports that 26-year-old thea maxfield suffered a horrific "hangman's fracture" - a clean break of her upper cervical vertebra - after she was bucked six metres into the air in the accident. after she fell off the horse ms maxfield tried to get out of the animal's way, but found that when she moved her head stayed where it was. she was forced to cup her hands around her head and lift it back into place to avoid damaging her spinal cord after her vertebrae shattered. "i had to literally pick my head up and carry it in my hands. i didn't have much hope of a recovery," she told the newspaper. fifteen radical islamists have been arrested in moscow with bombs, hand grenades and guns seized, russian police say. they say the group were members of an islamist group called at-takfir wal-hijra. police say the arrests were made during early-morning raids at flats in the east of the russian capital. officials said three homemade bombs, detonators and fuses for making more devices were also found. at-takfir wal-hijra was banned by russia's supreme court in 2010 for "inciting interethnic and interreligious enmity", russia's interfax news agency reports. the group has been mentioned in local media reports several times in the recent years as being one of the most active extremist groups in the region. it shares its name with a militant group founded in egypt in the 1960s, although it is not clear whether the organisations are linked. with just over two months to go before russia hosts the winter olympics in the black sea resort of sochi, these arrests will attract more international attention than usual, says the bbc's daniel sandford in moscow. in recent years the conflict between russian forces and separatists in chechnya has fuelled attacks by islamists. the violence has spread across the north caucasus, including to mainly-muslim ingushetia and dagestan, killing hundreds of people, among them members of the government and security services. the number of militant attacks in moscow itself has dropped since the end of russia's second war in chechnya, our correspondent reports. however, the attacks that have taken place have been very serious, such as the suicide bombing at domodedovo international airport, which killed 37 people in january 2011, he adds. most experienced it folks have faced the choice of freelancing versus working for an established business. freelancing offers creative autonomy but not necessarily steady income. a job with a larger company provides a steady paycheck but often comes with creative and personal constraints. we are part of a growing movement among creative professionals who want an alternative to traditional business structures. the worker-cooperative business model enables it professionals to maintain control of their work and life, produce excellent work, and retain the benefits of the value that they create, without sacrificing security. our tech cooperatives offer the support and team approach of a firm but are entirely owned and democratically governed by the folks who work in them - us. this is a moderated panel with a focused, first-person discussion of different experiences of working in tech cooperatives. we will explain why a growing number of it professionals prefer working in a co-op setting, the advantages and drawbacks of a democratic workplace, and the processes of starting and maintaining a worker cooperative. a rotorua teenager has admitted punching a sydney television reporter during an interview. tristan barker, 18, pleaded guilty in rotorua district court today to assaulting today tonight reporter david eccleston in rotorua in february. barker, who was accompanied in court by his parents, was remanded on bail for sentencing in june. barker must complete a restorative justice meeting with eccleston before sentencing, said community magistrate lesley jensen. eccleston was not present in court. neither barker nor his parents wanted to comment on the guilty plea today. barker's bail conditions forbid him meeting with eccleston before sentencing other than during the restorative justice process. australian police want to talk to barker, who has been referred to as a cyber troll, for comments he has made about family members and friends of suicide victims on social media in the past 12 months. basho is open-soucing riak cs, its storage software that integrates with amazon web services. riak cs will be available under an apache 2 license. the move is a smart one for basho, which has built a reputation for riak, its distributed high performance database. riak cs runs on top of riak and applies the same principles of distributed systems, applying it to the issues that companies have with large-scale storage. features include highly available, fault-tolerant storage; large object support; s3-compatible api and authentication; multi-tenancy and per-user reporting; an operational model for adding capacity and a visual interface for monitoring and metrics. open-sourcing riak cs frees basho to differentiate riak enterprise, which will remain proprietary. it can then also work with the open-source community to build out the storage software and integrate into the enterprise offering. the company launched riak cs last year. basho will not open-source the capability it developed to run the storage software across multiple data centers. companies increasingly need ways to pass large amounts of data between data centers. riak cs is meant for files up to 5 gigabytes or larger. the trend is toward companies using public data centers for cheap storage and private data centers for managing data that is core to the enterprise. the growth of open-source efforts such as cloudstack and openstack further demonstrates why basho has open-sourced its storage software. with these open cloud efforts, the market is demonstrating a growing need for storage software that can run anywhere on any system. basho can leverage this market with its founding principles based in open-source. get the latest news and videos for this game daily, no spam, no fuss. the last of us was praised for its strong story and now the playstation 3 action game is getting a movie adaptation. before you shrug your shoulders or roll your eyes, consider the talent behind the project. naughty dog creative director neil druckmann will write the script for the film, according to deadline's exclusive story. and naughty dog co-presidents evan wells and christophe balestra, as well as game director bruce straley, are also involved. veteran naughty dog writer amy hennig recently left the company, though it's unknown if she'll contribute to the film. the movie will be distributed by sony's own screen gems production company. deadline also notes that spider-man director sam raimi and his ghost house pictures company are attached to the project. raimi's involvement with the project is unclear. "since our game released last june, we've talked with many companies about making a film, but we couldn't have found better partners who share our creative vision and high standards," wells said about screen gems and ghost house pictures. no other details about casting or plot for the last us movie were announced, so we have to ask: who would you cast as joel and ellie? earlier today during the microsoft build keynote one announcement was accidently missed by bryan roper due to time constraints. microsoft and wacom have entered a licensing deal in which wacom will make so-called 'dual protocol pens'. that wording translates to one thing: digital pens that will work across digitizing technology from microsoft and wacom. the long term goal is that users can buy a range of pens for computers at various price points, but yet do not have to concern themselves with the technology behind it. no timeline was announced, but soon you will be able to have a pen for your surface tablet that also works on any wacom device and vice versa. microsoft is serious about inking in windows 10 with a variety of announcements this morning for developers to let them add inking capabilities into their apps. moreover, sticky notes and sketch pad apps are also coming along with some deeper inking integration into the os. we're standing by for the wacom official press announcement and will share that when it goes live. network rail has warned residents to tie down garden furniture during storm brian - to stop trampolines from blowing on tracks. the atlantic storm - officially named brian on thursday - is due to hit parts of the uk and the republic of ireland this weekend. the met office has issued a "yellow" warning for parts of britain on saturday, meaning travel disruption is possible this weekend. network rail along with train operators, has activated its weather contingency plans for some routes and is advising passengers to plan for possible travel disruption. weather contingencies include the introduction of temporary speed restrictions due to high winds, which can blow trees and other debris onto railway lines and overhead power lines. the m40 was closed on friday night after a lorry smashed into a van and two cars before careering off the road. roads officials warned drivers of long delays stretching into the night as workers rushed to repair emergency barriers that were damaged in the crash. people living near railway tracks have been warned by network rail to make sure garden furniture, equipment and trampolines are secure and not at risk of being blown onto the tracks or overhead power lines. a spokesman for network rail said: "we are keeping a close eye on storm brian and are doing everything we can to prepare for severe weather. 25 march 2014 for 200 years the ashikaga shoguns have ruled from kyoto. great splendour and power were theirs. now the over-mighty clans no longer obey. the time has come for a new warlord to become shogun! prepare to stake your claim on the shogunate when total war: shogun 2, a historical strategy game that combines turn-based tactics with real-time combat, arrives on the mac. as the leader of one of nine competing clans, use diplomacy, espionage and military brilliance to unify 16th century japan under one undisputed ruler: you. the road to kyoto is narrow and long, so gather your strength while we assemble the total war: shogun 2 minisite. total war: shogun 2 is a creative assembly game, developed and published for the mac by feral interactive. marvel's avengers: age of ultron pinball exterminates humanity today before his rampage reaches movie theaters next week, ultron is spreading his machinations to the pinball table with the latest from zen studios. the malevolent ai known as ultron has embarked on his journey to rid the planet of its greatest virus: humanity. the only ones standing in his way are the avengers. but before the two sides clash on the silver screen in "marvel's avengers: age of ultron," they'll face off on the pinball. zen studios is releasing the official age of ultron pinball table for marvel pinball and pinball fx2 and has released a new trailer to offer a quick glimpse at the table. watch as iron man works with mechanical doodads, as hulk and black widow ward off an increasing number of ultron robots. each of the avengers will get to shine in dedicated mini-games sprinkled across the table, including ones that feature a marksman game for hawkeye and an aerial melee battle between iron man and ultron. there's multi-balls a'plenty with this new table, as well as the cool cinematic moments that the marvel pinball tables have become known for. look for the avengers: age of ultron pinball table to hit pc and playstation consoles, starting today. it will gradually makes its way onto xbox one, xbox 360, wii u, and mobile devices later this week. iran and russia have discussed a draft agreement to build at least two nuclear power stations in the islamic republic, iran's official news agency reported. visiting russian official nikolai spassky and iranian nuclear officials reached an initial agreement on wednesday about the facilities, irna said. "iran and russia reached a preliminary agreement to build at least two new nuclear power plants," iranian atomic energy organisation spokesman behrouz kamalvandi told the news agency. the two new 1,000 megawatt plants will be constructed alongside the existing power station in bushehr, which was also built by russia, kamalvandi said. further talks will be held on technical and financial aspects of the project, but a final agreement is expected to be signed "very soon", he added. the bushehr facility has been running since 2011 with a capacity of 1,000 megawatts. iran, which still faces tight western sanctions on its oil and banking sectors despite a landmark agreement reached with major powers in november on its nuclear programme, is expected to fund the new bushehr project on a barter basis. tehran's ambassador to russia, mehdi sanaei, said last month that the close trading partners have been negotiating the delivery by iran of hundreds of thousands of barrels of oil per day in return for russian goods and services, including the planned new nuclear plants. canadians have been raising a stink with the bank of canada about the new plastic bank notes. emails to bank officials from the public in the months after the polymer bills were introduced repeatedly ask whether a scent of maple syrup has been added to the notes. the correspondence, obtained under the access to information act, asks the bank to confirm whether a scratch-and-sniff feature has been quietly added. rumours of the maple-syrup scent got started on the internet soon after the first bank notes were introduced in 2011, and have persisted in youtube videos, blogs and tweets. the bank insists it has not added a scent, maple or otherwise, to any of the new plastic bills. but the maple myth is likely to persist, with some canadians claiming the odour might be an unexpected byproduct of the manufacturing process. us troops who thought they were under attack killed an iraqi airport employee sunday as he drove near a military convoy on his way to work, officials said. the driver, identified by colleagues as baghdad international airport worker karim obaid bardan, failed to heed repeated signals to slow down or turn on his headlights as he neared the military convoy, said us and iraqi security officials. "as a result, the vehicle was perceived as a threat and a decision was made to engage it with small-arms fire in order to stop it and to protect the convoy from a possible attack," said army col. barry johnson, a us military spokesman in baghdad. "iraqi drivers know that they must use caution and avoid threatening behavior when approaching military vehicles," johnson said. the shooting comes a day after prime minister nouri al-maliki said us troops would not be needed in iraq beyond a december 2011 withdrawal deadline already in place between the two nations. an iraqi policeman confirmed the driver did not stop or slow. two other iraqi officials said the pre-dawn shooting happened near a security checkpoint on the road to the airport and described the shooting as a mistake. all three iraqi officials spoke on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to brief the media. the shooting is under us investigation, and johnson said the military "deeply regrets" the driver's death. elsewhere in baghdad, a roadside bomb in a western neighborhood killed one passer-by and wounded three during rush hour at the start of the arab workweek. two of the injured were policemen, according to city police and workers at yarmouk hospital. the turnbull government is moving a step closer to slapping export restrictions on liquefied natural gas producers as part of its bid to secure domestic supply and bring down prices. resources minister matt canavan will give formal notice to lng producers on monday that he will use the australian domestic gas security mechanism to assess whether 2018 will be a gas "shortfall year". the lng plant at gladstone in queensland. credit:bloomberg introduced on july 1 as part of the coalition's energy security push, the mechanism allows the government to intervene in the lng market to ensure there is sufficient gas supply to meet the needs of australian consumers. it can do so by requiring those lng projects which are drawing gas from the domestic market to limit exports or find offsetting sources of new gas. reality tv star kim kardashian's india trip has been cancelled over visa issues, according to reports. kardashian was set to make an appearance on bigg boss, the indian version of big brother, on saturday. the organisers of her visit confirmed to the bbc that kardashian would not come to india, but refused to disclose the exact reason behind cancellation. kardashian is a household name in the uk and the us, best known for reality shows and a leaked sex tape. former baywatch star pamela anderson and late reality tv star jade goody have also appeared on bigg boss. the colors channel, which hosts the show, said in a statement on monday that the 34-year-old kardashian would appear in bigg boss as a "guest to interact with the contestants". the show is hosted by bollywood superstar salman khan and has a huge following in india. the eighth season of the programme started in october. north korea's test launch of a kn-06 surface-to-air missile into the west sea early this month appears to have been successful, south korean defense minister kim kwan-jin said at a hearing by the national assembly's defense committee on monday. "we believe north korea was testing its latest weapon system and we have concluded that it was a success," kim said, offering the first such confirmation of the test launch. north korea unveiled the missile at a military parade celebrating the 65th anniversary of the founding of its workers party on october 10 last year. south korea officially verified it as a kn-06 in its 2010 defense white paper. the kn-06 is a surface-to-air missile that shoots down enemy fighters. unlike previous north korean missiles, such as the kn-02 inter-continental ballistic missile that follows an arch-like trajectory, the kn-06 is stored in a launching tube and fired vertically toward a flying target. it is similar to the russian s-300, which is used to shoot down other missiles, and seems to be based on technology that north korea secretly obtained from china, russia and other countries. showing its evolution from the s-300, which had a range of between 75 km and 90 km, the kn-06 is apparently capable of hitting targets up to 150 km away. each launcher truck can hold two to three missiles. north korea developed its latest weapon after it encountered difficulties in acquiring new fighter jets from china and other countries. in contrast, the south korean military has been able to upgrade its stable of fighter jets by acquiring cutting-edge f-15ks. seoul's air force will possess 60 such fighter jets by next year, capable of launching precision strikes against north korean nuclear weapons and missile bases. cape town - stellenbosch university has adopted a revised admissions policy for 2018 which aims to redress past inequalities. "the university recognises the need to reserve places for socio-economically disadvantaged students, regardless of racial classification," the higher education institution said in a statement at the weekend. it said these students would be those who achieved the minimum requirements for a particular course of study but whom otherwise would not be admitted to their course of choice. it said three factors would be under consideration for admittance for the 2018 academic year. these would be proven academic merit at school, the transformation of the "racial demography of su's student body," as well as "redressing the socio-economic disadvantage experienced by some students". the university said the policy was adopted by its council following wide-ranging consultations which took more than two and a half years, as well as a task team investigation. "the long-term objective of the policy is to contribute to a non-racial and equal society no longer requiring race-based redress. "stellenbosch is a university for all south africans," su rector prof wim de villiers said in the statement. the university was one of many hit by student protests over fees and access to education last year. last june, it also adopted a new language policy, which made provision for students who prefer to study in afrikaans, while also improving access to education for students who are proficient in english only. i returned to bcm after a break of many years and found the magazine to be an excellent read with very instructive and interesting games, articles and puzzles. some of the colours used for highlights made it difficult for me to read a little of the text but i got used to that and overall must say that bcm is excellent. i also love the fact that they have kept the pocket sized format which makes it ideal when travelling to take bcm along with me. at a time when the emphasis is online with the computer, being able to sit and read bcm is a welcome distraction and i recommend others to give it a try. alongside recent tournaments at home and abroad, the latest issue features a lovely article on philidor, puzzles, theory and plenty of game analysis. 9 fantastical sci-fi books that will make you think the ideal sci-fi book combines fine story telling with deep, exploratory questions that implore us to think about the fundamentals of everything. many sci-fi classics emphasize greatly on ground breaking ideas and questions that have influenced the genre. there are many of these classics included in this list, but also recent works that are also equally fantastic. a genre that makes itself believable by cloaking itself in the appearance of reality, you can do a lot more with sci-fi compared to other fiction genres. these books fully explore the sci-fi genre, prompting us to think further and deeper, making them highly recommended reads. there are many other great sci-fi books not included in this list. many classics have been omitted due to the sheer number of great books. to check out more sci-fi books, visit the reading stash recommender. celebrity big brother is almost back, and channel 5 has confirmed that it will have a uk vs usa theme. the channel announced today that british stars and famous american faces will go head to head and promised "all the excitement of a big sporting event" when the show returns to screens next month. the famous house in borehamwood will be decorated with british and american iconography, but big brother promised that the new housemates won't get too comfortable as there will be "plenty of surprises along the way". in fact, the brits and the americans will go head to head in various tasks, challenges and twists throughout the series - but who will end up the winner? host emma willis will be back to present the main show, while rylan clark will return for celebrity big brother's bit on the side. the housemates taking part haven't been confirmed yet, although various rumours have suggested all sorts of brits and americans from fatman scoop to brian harvey, and lindsay lohan's mum dina to gail porter. celebrity big brother will be back in august - we're already counting down the days. far uv light is only harmful to microbes and is different from the type used in tanning salons. still, the bathroom only activates its lights if sensors indicate that there's nobody inside. as soon as you close the door, the lights pulse and zap germs you might leave behind; the toilet cover even automatically pops up to ensure thorough cleaning. it only takes three seconds to finish the whole process. since that's probably not enough for the fastidiously clean, they also made almost every component inside hands-free. want to lift the toilet cover and seat? simply wave your hand over their sensors. the faucet, soap dispenser, hand dryer and even trash can cover all have sensors of their own. you still have to touch the door latch with the current concept, but the team's looking to turn it into a hands-free experience, as well. plus, they're planning to add a vacuum vent system that can suck unfortunate accidents on the bathroom floor. a toilet that cleans itself could help save airlines maintenance costs down the line. besides, it could convince germaphobes bitten by the travel bug to finally take that trip to the other side of the planet. then again, according to tests conducted in 2015, the dirtiest surface on a plane isn't anywhere in the bathroom -- it's actually the tray table. valencia winner fernando alonso, and mclaren's lewis hamilton, only narrowly avoided penalties at the recent european grand prix. germany's auto motor und sport has revealed the details of a team bosses meeting that took place at silverstone on thursday. they were told by fia officials that alonso and hamilton technically broke the rules at valencia, and would have been sanctioned if rival teams lodged official protests. hamilton reportedly overtook pole sitter sebastian vettel twice on the pre-race warm-up lap; a practice that is not allowed. and spaniard alonso also broke the rules by accepting the spanish flag from a marshal on the slowing-down lap, after thrilling the partisan crowd by winning. meanwhile, blick newspaper has crowned hamilton the unofficial "bad guy" of formula one, on the basis of a document doing the rounds in the silverstone paddock. it is a list of all the punished offenses in f1 over the last ten years -- with the 27-year-old british driver in clear pole position. two men who allegedly tried to hijack a plane in china's restive xinjiang region have died, state media report. the global times said the men, from the uighur minority group, died in hospital of injuries sustained trying to break into the plane's cockpit. six people were detained after the incident on friday, in which several people were injured. authorities in china frequently clash with the uighurs, who complain of repression and discrimination. the global times, citing unnamed officials, said the men had died "from injuries received in a fight with passengers and crew". two other suspects were moved to hospital after they "reportedly mutilated themselves", it added. the bbc has been unable to independently verify the reports. the tianjin airlines plane had just taken off from hotan and was bound for urumqi when the incident occurred. officials have said the men tried to break into the cockpit using a broken aluminium crutch as a weapon, but were overpowered by passengers and crew. the plane landed safely back in hotan. but dilxat raxit, spokesman for the german-based world uighur congress which campaigns for uighurs' rights, shed doubt on the chinese claims. speaking to ap news agency, he said it had not been an attempted hijack, but a fight following a dispute over a seat. almost half of xinjiang's residents are uighurs, a muslim minority group with cultural and ethnic links to central asia. uighur allegations of discrimination have been behind anti-han chinese and separatist sentiment in the restive region since the 1990s. in 2009, riots erupted in xinjiang in which nearly 200 people died after tensions flared between the uighur and han chinese communities. since then, there have been sporadic attacks and clashes. un secretary general ban ki-moon has said he hopes to visit north korea "at the earliest time", but that no decision has been made. it was his first acknowledgement that discussions are ongoing. the un recently denied media reports that a visit which included a meeting with leader kim jong-un had been confirmed for this week the two koreas are scheduled to hold rare talks on thursday aimed at improving relations. the meeting would be the first between the two sides since august when tensions bubbled over into a brief exchange of fire at the heavily guarded border. on tuesday north korea criticised the south for staging a live-fire drill near their disputed sea border saying it might respond to the "confrontation". 'positive signs' mr ban, who is a former south korean foreign minister, has repeatedly said he is willing to "play any constructive role" to work for peace, stability and dialogue on the korean peninsula. a planned visit by him to north korea in may was abruptly cancelled. but then last week, south korea's yonhap news agency cited an unnamed official saying a visit had been scheduled. the media reports sparked a denial from the united nations. speaking to reporters on monday, mr ban said there had been "positive signs" about a future visit. "we are discussing when would be the good time for me to visit the north, but so far nothing has been decided," he said, adding that he was working to make the trip "at the earliest time". if the visit goes ahead, mr ban would only be the third un chief to visit the north, which faces un sanctions because of its nuclear weapons programme. the two koreas remain technically at war as no peace treaty was signed after the 1950-1953 war. the lawn tennis association plans to hand out 10,000 free racquets and offer 10,000 free junior tennis courses in an attempt to unearth stars of the future. the lta says it will also take the davis cup trophy on a tour to 50 different venues around britain. the move follows criticism of the lta from world number two andy murray for failing to develop world-class talent. britain won the davis cup for the first time since 1936 by beating belgium in ghent in november. "we want to make a difference in capitalising on this unique opportunity to get as many kids on court as possible," said victorious davis cup captain leon smith. the lessons will be delivered by a team of 1,000 "expert and passionate coaches", according to an lta statement. the opportunity for children and families to take up the offer will go live before the davis cup first round tie against japan in march. the prisoners at the largest us prison in afghanistan have refused to leave their cells for the past two weeks to shower or exercise to protest against their indefinite imprisonment. the protest at bagram, which has been going on since at least july 1, offers a rare glimpse inside a jail that is even more closed to the public than the one at guantanamo bay. information about the protest came to light when the international committee of the red cross told the families of several prisoners that scheduled video links and family visits were being cancelled. representatives of the red cross, which monitors treatment of prisoners and arranges the calls, last visited the jail on july 5, but inmates were unwilling to meet them. the prisoners are refusing to leave their cells, but they are not engaging in hunger strikes or violence. ramzi kassem, a lawyer for a yemeni held at bagram, said prisoners are protesting being held indefinitely without trial or legal recourse. the us military declined to comment. unlike guantanamo bay, where prisoners have access to lawyers, the 620 prisoners at bagram are not allowed to visit their lawyers. afghan government representatives are generally not allowed to visit or inspect the prison. tottenham hotspur have released seven players, none of them terribly surprising. gomes, giancarlo gallifuoco, cameron lancaster, roman michael-percil, jonathan miles, kevin stewart and lawrence vigouroux will all leave the club. gomes' departure was announced yesterday, and he's the only senior player to leave. gallifuoco and lancaster were considered potential premier league prospects at one point, but will now likely try their hands at lower league football and attempt to work their way back up the english football ladder. young players dominic ball, grant hall, jon obika and nathan oduwa have had their contracts extended, so the club obviously thinks they still have some premier league potential or sale value. the big news out to come out of the premier league retained and released list is that contracts have been offered to brad friedel and souleymane coulibaly. it's possible that they could both leave this summer, but the club is making an effort to retain them. there are also new offers on the table to a number of academy players, including the very highly regarded harry winks. team kaylie after one too many misdemeanors, selfie-obsessed teen socialite kaylie konners is legally tasked with leading an after-school wilderness club. charlie's colorforms city loveable, hilarious charlie leads you on unpredictable and imaginative shape-filled story expeditions alongside a colorful cast of characters. yoohoo to the rescue in a series of magical missions, quick-witted yoohoo and his can-do crew travel the globe to help animals in need. the dark crystal: age of resistance in this prequel to the fantasy classic, three young gelfling inspire a rebellion against the cruel emperor when they discover a horrifying secret. another life astronaut niko breckenridge and her young crew face unimaginable danger as they go on a high-risk mission to explore the genesis of an alien artifact. remastered: the lion's share a journalist seeking the author of "the lion sleeps tonight" discovers the story of solomon linda and finds his family living in the slums of soweto. messiah when a man in the middle east appears to be performing miracles, a rift breaks out over whether he's the messiah or a fraud in this suspenseful drama. revisions when shibuya time-warps to 2388, high schooler daisuke and his friends are conscripted by ahrv agent milo to fight the hostile cyborg race, revisions. toxic chemical waste has been washed into the yarra river at warrandyte by parks victoria staff, killing trees and creating a "public health risk" near a popular melbourne swimming spot. according to a confidential internal report on parks victoria operations, a toxic cocktail of chemicals and herbicides has flowed into the yarra from a "wash-down facility" near pound bend, which is a popular spot for swimming, fishing and canoeing inside warrandyte state park. siblings oscar, 7, sophie, 11 and harry, 9, enjoying a swim at the pound bend reserve in warrandyte. credit:luis ascui an incident and hazard summary report, dated october 29, reveals the concrete site is used to "pressure-wash vehicles, triple rinse chemical containers and mix herbicides for use in the park". but the area drains directly into the yarra, and the report states that chemical waste from the depot's wash-down area has already killed a number of trees before entering the river. an elite university in china has terminated the contract of the outspoken economist and champion of free speech xia yeliang, reports say. mr xia told the associated press that the economics faculty at peking university voted to expel him. the professor has spoken in favour of democratic values. his dismissal comes as china's leaders have been tightening their control of the media and internet, arresting bloggers and activists. mr xia helped draft charter 08, a manifesto calling for political change in china, and is a friend of jailed 2010 nobel peace prize winner liu xiaobo. in an interview with the bbc world service at the time of mr liu's honour, mr xia said he had been asked by the authorities not to speak to journalists or celebrate his friend's award. rumours of mr xia's likely dismissal prompted the committee of concerned scientists to write a letter to peking university's president, calling on him to cancel the planned faculty vote on the liberal professor's position. mr xia spent the academic year 2012-13 as a visiting scholar at stanford university in california. president donald trump said thursday that the united states will withdraw from the landmark paris climate agreement. trump also said he would start talks to re-enter the accord with what he called a more "fair" deal, but was immediately rebuked by several european governments. the decision sets the world's largest economy apart from almost all other nations on earth, and moves in opposition to many large american companies, as well. always a showman, trump announced the decision in a heavily teased event at the white house rose garden, where administration officials and conservatives applauded the move. "in order to fulfill my solemn duty to protect america and its citizens, the united states will withdraw from the paris climate accord, but begin negotiations to re-enter either the paris accord or an entirely new transaction on terms that are fair to the united states, its businesses, its workers, its people, its taxpayers," trump said. pope francis is making five more child saints: two portuguese shepherd children who said the virgin mary appeared to them in fatima 100 years ago and three mexican adolescents who were killed for their faith in the 16th century. francis signed the canonization decrees thursday. in the case of the mexicans, francis declared the three child martyrs of tlaxcala worthy of sainthood without having a miracle attributed to their intercession, once again sidestepping the typical saint-making process. the boys, cristobal, antonio and juan, were converted to catholicism by missionaries in the early 1500s. francis followed the rules in approving a miracle for francisco and jacinta marto, the fatima siblings, just two months before he is to travel to the fatima shrine to mark the centennial anniversary of their apparitions. a 30-year-old afghan woman was reportedly beheaded by a group of taliban militants for "infidelity act" of going shopping without her husband. the horrific act took place in the remote village of latti in afghanistan's sar-e-pul province, which is under taliban control, the independent reported. afghanistan's first female fixed-wing pilot requests us asylum over safety fears on tuesday, the woman was stabbed and beheaded by a group of armed men while her husband was in iran. the taliban, however, has denied any responsibility for the beheading of the woman. the taliban, which is a fundamentalist sunni muslim movement in afghanistan, enforces strict rules on women which restrict their freedom. reports state that the taliban forbids women from speaking too loudly, venturing out without a male relative and also limits their education and forbids them from working. if women do not abide by their laws, the militant group punishes them with lashes and sometimes with executions. recently, captain niloofar rahmani, afghanistan's first female fixed-wing pilot and the first woman to be trained as an afghan air force pilot, had requested asylum in the united states over safety concerns. rahmani reportedly made the request after she and her family received death threats from militant organisations. last week, rahmani was scheduled to return home from the us after completing a 15-month training course. however, a day before her departure, she declared that she did not wish to go because she feared for her safety. rahmani's request, however, has drawn criticism from many in afghanistan. she is now facing flak for "betraying" her country in her attempt to seek asylum in the us. "i am sure she lied by saying she was threatened, just to win the asylum case," afghan gen. mohammad radmanish, a defense ministry spokesman, said this weekend, according to the new york times. canterbury legend and director steve mortimer fears the bulldogs are "losing our dna" under des hasler ahead of a critical meeting that could determine the coach's future at the club. several bulldogs directors are concerned about the direction of the "family club" under hasler, with the issue to be thrashed out an emergency meeting on friday. hasler is contracted until the end of next year, while negotiations for a two-year extension - which have been ongoing for more than six months - appear to have stalled. it's understood that if hasler were to part company with the club, former bulldogs forward and raiders assistant coach dean pay is the favourite to take over. mortimer, one of the club's favourite sons, is a director of both the leagues and football clubs. the former halfback said he respected hasler as a coach, but questioned whether the former manly mentor was the right fit at belmore. austin harig is in trouble with the law, again. the 18-year-old who challenged carl paladino in the 2016 buffalo school board election was arrested early thursday morning. police responded to his home on zittel street in south buffalo to a call of threats and harassment. when police arrived, they found a young man on the porch stairs suffering head and body injuries, according to a police source. another young man was also injured while trying to break up an altercation, the source tells 7 eyewitness news. police arrested harig and jonathan tyner, 21, at the scene. harig is charged with third degree assault with intent to cause physical harm, first degree gang assault causing serious physical injury, and second degree harassment. tyner is charged with obstruction of governmental administration and resisting arrest. this is the second time harig has been charged this year. in june, the teen was accused of providing alcohol to underage people. making a pilgrimage to the videogame history museum has been tough so far; most of its collection is in storage, and what little you do see has been going on cross-country tours. pretty soon, though, it will have a permanent public display. a frisco, texas community board has approved a deal to give the museum a 10,400 square foot location inside the city's discovery center by this april. that's not gigantic -- a little larger than a baseball diamond -- but it means that you can easily revisit some of the consoles that defined your youth. this venue is just the start, for that matter. after launch, the founders hope to raise enough cash from corporate sponsors to get a far larger base of operations. while frisco isn't the easiest place to reach unless you live in the dallas area, it sure beats hoping that the existing nomadic exhibit will eventually reach your 'burg. police spokesman micky rosenfeld said soldiers deployed in jerusalem to reinforce police demanded late wednesday that the man show them his id. the man refused, scuffled with the soldiers and then attempted to seize one of their weapons. one soldier shot the man, who later died of his wounds, rosenfeld said. "the soldiers had high suspicions that he was a terrorist," he said. the palestinian attacks have israelis on edge. when an arab citizen of israel opened fire at a bus station in southern israel on sunday, killing an israeli soldier and wounding several people, a private security guard shot an eritrean migrant he thought was an attacker. as the eritrean lay on the ground, a mob of people cursed him, kicked him and hit him with objects. he later died of his wounds. police said the autopsy showed the man died from gunshot wounds and that four suspects would appear in court thursday over the beating. israelis have scrambled to purchase pepper spray for self-defense and some government officials have called for citizens to carry firearms for protection. bab council member mihemed abdulrezak spoke to ronahi tv about the turkish army's most recent aggression on rojava land. abdulrezak stated that turkish fighter jets conducted airstrikes on um hosh, um qura and al-hassia villages that had been liberated by revolutionary forces from isis as a result of an operation yesterday. abdulrezak said the airstrikes aimed to stop the revolutionary forces' advance against isis gangs. the aggression targeting civilian settlements in villages lasted hours, leaving 4 civilians dead and dozens of others wounded. the aerial attack also targeted the positions of army of revolutionaries, as a result of which 10 combatants were martyred and several others were wounded. abdulrezak underlined that their fight and advance will continue until the entire shehba region is cleansed of gang groups despite the attacks of the turkish army, affiliated gangs and isis. while there is undoubtedly some serious research going on at the international space station, the astronauts in orbit like to have a bit of fun as well. mashable recently posted an album of really spectacular photos from chris hadfield, the 53-year-old canadian commander of the spaces station. the images he's snapped from the space station as it orbits earth are worth a look. some of the highlights include a tiny blip of moon rising over the earth, a clearly visible border between israel and egypt, an overhead view of pyongyang, north korea, and an early morning shot of new york city with downtown manhattan's skyscrapers casting a remarkable shadow on the water. hadfield's images often go viral, thanks to his son evan, who often reaches out to the media to promote his dad's awesome photos. commander hadfield is a popular online presence, with nearly 650,000 twitter followers. a video he posted recently about what happens when you cry in zero gravity was also hugely popular. we might expect a few more good images from hadfield as he orbits earth from 230 miles above. he is scheduled to be at the space station until may. you can follow hadfield and check out more of his photos here. strip shows and wet t-shirt contests in bars are now legal under provincial law. the latest move to loosen up saskatchewan's liquor laws went into effect new year's day. it's the end of an era in a province where the combination of alcohol and stripping has long been banned. performers still cannot be fully nude: women will still have to cover their nipples and full frontal nudity is not allowed. it's good news for anna scott, who is artistic director for the bottoms up burlesque club. her dancers are burlesque performers, in contrast to exotic dancers that work in bars. however, before the change, her dancers could not even remove a glove or feather boa in a licensed facility, she said. "under the old liquor laws, anything like that would be considered strip-tease," scott said. scott says her club always follows the rules, but the new regulations will make it easier to arrange shows. it's not known if any bars are planning to immediately start strip shows or wet t-shirt contests. in saskatoon, thanks to city council moving to regulate the adult entertainment industry, such shows can only happen in nightclubs located in areas zoned for industry. the zatopek in melbourne on thursday night might carry tradition but the 10,000-metre track race that it lends its name could be cut from the olympics under sweeping changes authorised by the ioc in europe this week. five key events, remarkably including the 200-metre sprint, and the shot put, are in jeopardy after the ioc pushed for the athletics program to be tightened to allow other sports to be added to the olympics schedule. silence please: jamaica's usain bolt crosses the finish line to win gold. credit:getty images the events regarded most at risk under a athletics shake-up are, in order: the 10,000 metres, one of the men's race walks - most likely the 20-kilometre event - the 200, shot put and triple jump. respected athletics administrator brian roe, a senior international technical official at the olympics and world championships, said he was at a meeting of influential thinkers in the sport when the options were put and those five events were all presented as the most obvious choices if there were to be changes. the houston texans will have to make do without their no. 1 overall pick for the foreseeable future. texans coach bill o'brien said monday that jadeveon clowney underwent arthroscopic knee surgery and will miss four to six weeks. nfl media insider ian rapoport reported sunday that clowney tore his meniscus. clowney suffered the injury during houston's 17-6 win over the washington redskins on sunday. he limped to the locker room late in the second quarter and did not return. he had one tackle for a loss before his exit. clowney has had injury issues since being taken with the first pick in the 2014 nfl draft. the former south carolina star missed extended time this summer after undergoing sports hernia surgery. a big sunday for the texans' franchise has turned bittersweet. the latest "around the nfl podcast" covers the falcons' impressive offense, rgiii's struggles and recaps all sunday's week 1 action. a new law has come into force in norway making the purchase of sex illegal. norwegian citizens caught paying for prostitutes at home or abroad could face a hefty fine or a six-month prison sentence, authorities say. the prison sentence could be extended to three years in cases of child prostitution. the norwegian authorities say they want to stamp out sex tourism and street prostitution by targeting clients rather than prostitutes. "we think buying sex is unacceptable because it favours human trafficking and forced prostitution," deputy justice minister astri aas-hansen was quoted as saying by the afp news agency. wire-tapping the tough new measures go further than similar ones introduced by other nordic countries such as sweden and finland. norwegian police have been authorised to use wire-tapping devices to gather evidence. there has already been a visible decrease in women working on the streets of central oslo, local media report. prostitutes will be offered access to free education and health treatment for those with alcohol or drugs problems. the government had already launched a publicity campaign before the law came into force. critics of the new regulations say prostitution will simply be driven underground and will be more difficult to control. manchester united goalkeeper victor valdes is expected to sign for belgian club standard liege until the end of the season. valdes, 34, signed an 18-month contract when he joined united a year ago. however, the former barcelona and spain goalkeeper has featured just twice for louis van gaal's side. he was left out of the club's pre-season american tour with van gaal claiming the keeper had refused to play in a reserve game. valdes, who won the champions league three times with barca and was part of the spain squads that lifted the 2010 world cup and euro 2012 trophies, has not trained with united's first team since his fall out with the manager. and, after a proposed move to besiktas fell through in august, the player's agent indicated valdes would move on in january. victor valdes posted this message on instagram on thursday, as he looks set to leave manchester united find all the latest football transfers on our dedicated page. a woman allegedly attacked her boyfriend with her vehicle after finding out he was hiv positive. according to court records, on april 29 police were called to a park near 13th street and hatcher road to investigate a report of a man being hit by a vehicle. police say the victim was in an argument with his girlfriend 44-year-old misty lee wilke at a park near 13th street and hatcher road. he left the area on a bicycle and was returning to the park when wilke, according to witnesses, started driving in circles appearing to try and hit the victim. she struck the victim with her mustang causing a severe head injury and a broken back, according to records. wilke went home and called police about thirty minutes later, said police. she reported that she had just found out the victim had hiv and that the boyfriend was allegedly laughing about it. the girlfriend claimed she pushed her boyfriend after he pulled a knife on her, cutting her arm. she says she got in her car and accelerated, jumping the curb and went through the park without looking. she realized she did hit someone but did not know how her boyfriend got in front of the vehicle. police did find a small cut on wilke's arm. wilke has been charged with two counts of aggravated assault. an attack on the iraqi central bank in baghdad has killed 15 people and left more than 50 injured. the assault began with a bomb blast. gunmen then battled with police as they tried to storm the building. five gunmen blew themselves up, police said. the bbc's jim muir baghdad says it is unclear if it was a bank raid, an insurgent attack, or both. the attack came one day before iraq's new parliament was due to hold its first session. many of those killed were bank employees, security officials say. our correspondent says that in recent months there have been several well-organised attacks on jewellery stores and banks. us and iraqi officials have said they are being carried out by insurgent groups desperate to raise cash to finance their operations. television pictures showed a column of black smoke rising over baghdad from the scene of the explosions and ambulances racing through the city streets. a nearby generator caught fire along with its fuel store sending up a thick pall of black smoke. violence has dropped sharply in iraq since 2006-07, but unrest has simmered since the general election in march produced no outright winner. a deal between the various parties to form a government and choose a prime minister has not been reached and may still take weeks of negotiations, analysts say. former us attorney general loretta lynch ordered the then head of the fbi to refer to the inquiry into hillary clinton's emails as a "matter" rather than an investigation, he has said. james comey told a senate intelligence committee hearing that he was "confused and concerned" by the remark. he said it was one of the reasons he felt compelled to announce his findings into the case. the email controversy dogged mrs clinton's presidential campaign. some say it was responsible for her election defeat. mr comey announced last july that an investigation into mrs clinton's use of a private email server while she was secretary of state would be closed without prosecution. image copyright getty images image caption james comey said he was concerned by the request from loretta lynch "at one point the attorney general directed me not to call it an investigation but instead to call it a matter, which confused me and concerned me," mr comey told senators. donald trump has alleged that mrs lynch agreed to let mrs clinton off the hook in return for the promise that she would keep her job if the democrat won the election and became president. for the fifth consecutive year, rit students were challenged to create a poster design in conjunction with imagine rit: innovation and creativity festival. the winning poster, shown here, was created by tyler somers, a second-year graphic design student from reisterstown, md. more than 11,000 votes were cast during the competition. members of the rit community were invited to select their favorites from among the 69 submitted designs, all of which were showcased as part of an online gallery. below are the entries in the 2012 imagine rit poster contest. each submissions was created by an rit student. the five most popular posters were sent to rit president bill destler, who selected the winner. thanks to all those who submitted designs and voted on the entries. detroit -- the long-awaited jeep wrangler redesign planned for 2018 will come with an eight-speed automatic transmission that promises to dramatically improve the off-roader's fuel economy. fiat chrysler automobiles and jeep won't discuss the details of the next-generation wrangler. but in a filing this month with the securities and exchange commission, the automaker appears to have tipped its hand on its choice of an automatic transmission for the wrangler. "the 8-speed transmission is currently paired with gasoline and diesel engines in the 2014 ram 1500 and jeep grand cherokee and is also featured in the new 2014 dodge durango. we plan to use this transmission in all of our rear-wheel-drive vehicles, except for heavy-duty versions of the ram pick-up truck and the srt viper," the company wrote in the filing. the filing also noted that the eight-speed -- built by chrysler under license from zf friedrichshafen -- "reduces fuel consumption by more than 9 percent over the five-speed" transmission it replaced. it's over for mike adams in pittsburgh. the steelers released the veteran offensive tackle thursday with a failed physical designation. adams, a second-round pick in 2012, missed all of last year after undergoing an offseason back procedure. spending the year on the physically unable to perform list, the lineman's contract tolled through 2016, but pittsburgh has seen enough of the underwhelming tackle. adams, 26, came out of camp in 2013 as the team's starting left tackle, but lost his job by midseason. he can't be blamed for the back injury, but adams still goes down as one of pittsburgh's biggest draft misses over the past half-decade. it's fair to wonder if his playing career is a wrap. thankfully for the black and gold, pittsburgh's first-rounder from 2012 -- reliable right guard david decastro -- has started all but one game over the past three seasons and has given the steelers a rock-solid presence up front. the atacama is well-known for what are arguably the cleanest, darkest skies on earth. the dry air adds an extra transparency and this coupled with the altitude creates a night sky like no other. i visited at a time when venus was situated quite close to the centre of the milky way; an astronomical event that only takes place every 8 years or so. i also timed my visit with the autumn equinox which is a good time of year to capture zodiacal light; the celestial phenomenon caused by sunlight scattering interplanetary space dust in the zodiacal cloud. it stretches across the ecliptic and glows for a short while after sunset like a ufo beam and i was lucky enough to witness this every night i stepped out into the dark. this film follows the ancient cycle of sunset, to night, to sunrise. a continuous loop of perpetual movement that has been unbroken since the dawn of time, and the only true constant in our lives. her body was spotted under a bridge by a passer-by a month after she vanished. officials said her death seemed to be accidental, but that a post-mortem examination was needed to determine the exact cause of death. she was one of the first black african models to become a global catwalk star, in the 1980s. the mother of three, originally from guinea, disappeared after being dropped off from a party. her handbag was later recovered near the houseboat where she lived. outspoken campaigner aged 47, and known simply as katoucha, she worked with some of the world's top designers at the height of her career, including yves saint-laurent and christian lacroix. i embodied the most arrogant and admired kind of femininity, i who was supposed to be diminished katoucha niane she left the catwalk in 1994, but in recent years made headlines as an outspoken campaigner against female circumcision, launching a foundation against the practice. having undergone the procedure herself at the age of nine, in guinea, ms niane recounted the ordeal in a recent book, called in my flesh. she said she saw her career as a top model as a form of "revenge" for the horror of genital mutilation. the spacex falcon 9 spacecraft is being put through its paces in preparation for a launch next week. this afternoon, a full rehearsal will take place starting at 2:30pm edt, culminating in the falcon's nine engines firing at full power for two seconds. the actual event will occur at cape canaveral in florida but will be streamed live on the spacex site; the rocket is expected to fire around 3pm. if all goes well, the falcon 9, carrying a dragon supply capsule, will launch into low-earth orbit on may 7th, and spacex will attempt to dock with the international space station. the falcon and dragon spacecraft are designed as replacements for the defunct space shuttles, and a successful docking would make the dragon the first commercial craft ever to land at the iss. however, the launch has already been delayed several times, and spacex cautions that it may not be able to successfully dock on the first trip. today's test run will be the precursor to the first spacex flight since 2010, when a dragon capsule was launched into orbit and successfully recovered. tallinn: estonian government has decided to clear the bush along the border between estonia and russia for full infrastructure development on border safety. the move came following alleged kidnapping of an estonian counterintelligence agent along the border. state forest management center would perform the work, as agreed by the country's prime minister taavi roivas, interior minister hanno pevkur and environment minister keit pentus-rosimannus last week, reported xinhua citing the estonian public broadcasting monday. increasing the border security to ensure national security is a priority for the government, officials said. a total of 200,000 euros were allocated for bush clearing and improving border guard equipment this summer while two million euros is being channelled into reinforcing the border with night vision cameras, border guard weapons and personal protection devices. microsoft revealed earlier this year that it was planning to bring android phone notifications straight to windows 10 pcs. if you're a windows 10 tester then you can enable this new feature today. a new update for the android version of cortana will allow you to enable individual apps to sync their notifications to a windows 10 pc. missed calls, messages, and other notifications from an android phone can appear on a pc, and they should arrive within a few seconds of them appearing on a phone. microsoft is using its cloud services to sync the notifications, and windows 10 users will even be able to reply to the android notifications directly from a pc. if you're not a windows 10 tester then this functionality will arrive with the anniversary update this summer. new laws set to be passed by canberra this week will make it a crime for the media to disclose the death of an innocent bystander caught up in a bungled covert spy agency operation, the government's dumped independent national security legislation monitor has warned. it comes as shadow attorney-general mark dreyfus told abc tv that he could not be "absolutely certain" journalists or whistleblowers disclosing bungled operations publicly would not face up to 10 years' jail. "i can't be absolutely certain but what i can be certain of is that labor is going to be monitoring how these provisions work in practice, and i'd stress again, we are talking about quite a small number of operations that are ever likely to be special intelligence operations," mr dreyfus said on tuesday. under the new laws, australian security intelligence organisation officers will now have greater immunity from prosecution if they commit a crime in the course of a "special intelligence operation". residents in three borders villages have given disused phone boxes a new lease of life by turning them into "community information hubs". the kiosks in crailing, eckford and nisbet near jedburgh were declared surplus to requirements by bt. however, they have now been adopted by their communities, repainted and solar power installed, in order be accessible 24 hours a day. a wide array of contents has been put on offer. there is information about local events, history and walking routes, for both locals and visitors alike. there is also advice on environmental issues, a sales and swaps notice board to try to make the community more "green" and a selection of magazines. the idea is that someone might take a leaflet or magazine, swapping it for one they have brought. funding for the project, which is an initiative of crailing, eckford and nisbet community council, has come from the people's postcode trust. community councillor sheila campbell said the boxes had been deteriorating slowly and the scheme had restored them to their former glory, as well as allowing them to take on a useful new lease of life. during surging technological and scientific advancement, humanity has set its sights once again on our moon. during the live-streaming event of the first manned mission in over 80 years, the world watched in horror as they were violently exposed to the existence of the supernatural in an event that became known as the unveiling. this short story is a brief look into the world and characters of the blood moon trilogy. it follows anja, a woman who is fighting for her life, and two cousins aless, and grizz who are on a mission to handle a dangerous situation. fast-paced and exciting this short work puts a new spin on the science fiction and supernatural genres. compelling characters and blood pumping action await readers in victor arteaga's debut into the literary world. the company is looking at support for even more tracking stations and thus a larger space, but it doesn't have a timetable to offer. don't expect to run around a warehouse-sized vr environment, folks. there also won't be an official mounting option for steamvr until later in 2018, and the finished next-generation tracking system won't work with existing htc vive headsets. developers can use the vive through engineering samples that add a blinker for backwards compatibility. as you might guess, this won't make a huge difference if you only ever experience vr in your den. it's more about public or commercial vr, where you want as few arbitrary boundaries as possible. however, it's advances like these that could be crucial to vr as a whole. walkabout vr should ideally be limited only by the size of the room, not the trackers. this isn't technically unlimited, but it's close enough that more developers could let their imaginations run wild. cwirc is a plugin for the x-chat irc client to transmit raw morse code over the internet using irc servers as reflectors. the transmitted morse code can be received in near real-time by other x-chat clients with the cwirc plugin. cwirc tries to emulate a standard amateur radio rig : it sends and receives morse over virtual channels, and it can listen to multiple senders transmitting on the same channel. morse code is keyed locally using a straight or iambic key connected to a serial port, or using the mouse buttons, and the sound is played through the soundcard, or through an external sounder. note that cwirc doesn't do any morse decoding : it simply transmits and receives morse code timing events. a standard irc user on the same irc channel you're transmitting morse on will only see coded lines when morse code is transmitted. only other cwirc users can receive what you send. this coming weekend is big apple pony con in, naturally, new york, ny! while you may no longer be able to smoke in local bars or purchase a big gulp from 7-eleven, you can have the beautiful, sweet, and incredibly talented voice of fluttershy and pinkie pie, andrea libman, sign this here picture for you! and let's face it, she's easily a trillion times better than tar, nicotine, high fructose corn syrup, and dental bills! also, if you find yourself still hankerin' for a hunk of pony art, well you're in luck! i will have a bunch of new prints and posters available at my table at big apple ponycon as well! sadly, i myself will not be in attendance, but my amazing and way, way cooler friend noval has offered to staff my table! you'll find us right next to john joseco and purple tinker ideally it won't be the table that's on fire or overrun with velociraptors. update- thanks to knighty and kevinsano for great advice on a bit of a kerning issue with the font! reads much better now, thanks so much, guys! thousands of landing craft were used to transport men and equipment across the english channel on d-day. many different types of craft were used. these ranged from tiny assault landing craft to huge landing ships. other landing craft were fitted with guns or rockets. there was even a 'landing barge, kitchen' to prepare food for the troops. the use of landing craft meant that the allies could land troops and heavy equipment, such as tanks, on strongly defended beaches that were not previously intended to receive supplies. because equipment could be brought directly onto the beaches, the landing craft were also a short-term solution to the problem of securing the harbours and ports that were needed for the immediate build-up of men and materiel. although the development of specialised landing craft began early in the war, it was only on d-day that they were used on such a scale. we did a double take after receiving photos of an ice imprint from the front of a jeep. the ice sculpture was discovered in the visitor's parking lot at vidant medical center tuesday afternoon. witn received two different photos from viewers who work at vidant, one picture taken from the front and another looking the other direction. terry costakis said he believes that the jeep owner left their vehicle running, warming up the engine. the imprint was then left after they backed out of the parking space. the ice was attached to the curb. kimberly freeman, who took the front photo, said at first she thought she was seeing a mirage. we're not sure how long it stayed around, but it's pretty cool. meet the woman who took the now viral photo by clicking here. sap on tuesday said its flagship business suite applications will be available via the cloud as a subscription. the move is part of sap's effort to transition on-premise customers to the cloud. rival oracle already offers its applications as a subscription and sap competes with cloud players such as netsuite, salesforce and workday to name a few. nevertheless, for sap shops the availability of business suite in the cloud is notable. pricing, or even ranges, weren't available on sap's site and the company wasn't immediately available for comment. one thing is clear: the migration from on-premise to sap's cloud suite will take time. first, companies aren't likely to quickly ditch their core financial apps until they are done depreciating them. and meanwhile, a company that will transition to the cloud will also check out other options in addition to sap's cloud business suite. sap's primary motive is to take away rivals' cloud arguments and offer a viable option to stay with the company. sap's other bet is that the suite approach always wins ---even in the cloud. the news builds on sap's strategy powwow in new york in march. technically, sap's business suite subscription is dubbed sap business suite via the sap hana enterprise cloud. sap added that it has added global data centers and migration services that can integrate the company's cloud offerings---successfactors and ariba---with on-premise deployments. as for the data center footprint, sap said it has 16 facilities worldwide and sap japan has built facilities in tokyo and osaka. the data centers are "in memory-centric". sap cited mclaren, schaidt innovations and levi strauss as companies migrating to business suite on demand or in a hybrid model. sap has argued that customers will be able to consume innovation faster in a cloud model and can pick and choose their deployment models. the rbb generates an incredible atmosphere at a-league games through their chanting and singing. there's even a school of thought that suggests the group ought to be considered a triumph of sorts because members of the various ethnic groups which make up sydney's multi-cultural western suburbs have united as one to join the rbb and support the wanderers. however, there has also been numerous complaints made about incidents that have involved some members of the group and the media has publicised the clashes they have had with the police over the years. during last anzac day's match against perth, rbb supporters walked out of pirtek stadium at halftime in protest after pepper spray was allegedly used by police in response to a flare being set off. there were reports police were injured in the violence. the confrontation continued outside with the supporters infuriated by what they believed was an overreaction by police. there was a newspaper report published in early 2014 which intimated while the majority of rbb fans were acknowledged as being well behaved and good supporters, there was said to be a hardcore element who police were concerned could potentially lead to criminal behaviour. police made it clear at the time they would not allow the formation of the old english football's "firms" a group of hooligans who fight like-minded supporters from rival clubs. it is understood at the time police had gone to a lot of trouble to identify those with a penchant for creating trouble. there might be some truth to the aam aadmi party's claim that corruption took a knock during its 49-day rule in the capital. a survey has revealed that 50 per cent of delhiites believe that steps taken by the aap government helped reduce the incidence of bribery. nearly 64 per cent respondents of the poll, conducted a month and a half after the arvind kejriwal-led government's exit, said they had experienced a marked difference in the attitude of officials when it comes to demanding bribes - and that they were now hesitant in doing so. the kejriwal-led aap government was in power for 49 days the survey, published in a report titled 'retail bribery in delhi' was conducted on 1,500 people from various sections of the society, including unskilled labourers, street vendors and auto-rickshaw and truck drivers, who regularly pay bribes. "we started the survey in february and finished it in 10 days," said anupama jha, author of the report. nearly 70 per cent people claimed that they have paid bribes to continue with their jobs. the survey also found that the police, mcd, dda and rto were considered the most corrupt government departments. jha, who conducted the survey for the ngo 'initiatives for transparency and accountability' after quitting transparency international in january, said people felt that with kejriwal at the helm, government officials were scared to even ask for bribe. leonys martin will have surgery on his right hand on wednesday to remove the hamate bone, per the beat guys on twitter. they say that leonys could be able to run and play defense in two weeks, and will be in a position to hit in four to six weeks. obviously, the preferred situation would be for leonys to be able to play now, but this at least allows the rangers to call him back up when rosters expand, and use him as a pinch runner or defensive replacement late in games, even if he can't hit. once leonys is able to swing the bat again, the minor league season will be over and so he won't be able to go out on a rehab assignment, but you have to hope he will heal in time to be able to hit before the season is over, and thus be a viable option to spell delino deshields in center field at times. i have read all of craven's 11 book series plus a couple of the additional ones like rebel radio and good fences and couldn't put them down ! i am scrambling to find more of his books. i have read so many apocalyptic books lately so i have experienced the ones where it was heavier on the more graphic portrayal of the violence and devastation but this series told the story without being too heavy handed with things. it was a smoother type reading but still had all the trials and deaths and struggles portrayed of the other emp destruction stories and also had the personal and emotional struggles of the people expressed. you were able to travel along with them in their thoughts and see things they saw. you became attached to them and hung on the words to see what happened to them. so many people learning to find how tough and resilient they had to be to stay alive yet keep their humanity. so many horrible things happening and just how horrible some people can be when rules are not keeping them under control. i also loved some of the military strategy used especially by king and michael and also at the farm. having the center of it all being blake and his farm and his rebel radio was a great way to draw in stories from other areas going through the devastation. it allowed the story to continue with multiple experiences. i wish the books continued on longer. it was hard to see them coming to an end. thank you mr craven for a very enjoyable series of books to read and experience through your writing. telstra has sacked hundreds of customer service and management staff from its call centres around the country and will offshore more work to the philippines. the telecommunications giant has not publicly announced the redundancies this week, but the community and public sector union revealed the job losses on friday after receiving alerts from affected members. the union said 450 workers had received notices that they would lose their jobs in recent days. a telstra spokesman confirmed the cuts on friday afternoon, but said 326 staff would be affected. the telstra job losses are nationwide, with at least 140 jobs slashed in melbourne and the closure of an entire call centre in perth, according to the union. calls going to perth centre would now be handled through call centres in bathurst, nsw and cebu, in the philippines. on wednesday, geapress reported hundreds -- possibly thousands -- of dead and dying birds in italy. countless turtle doves were found scattered in the streets, in flower beds and hanging tragically from trees "like christmas balls" in the town of faenza. many of the birds that fell dead from the sky were discovered with a mysterious blue stain in their beaks. while the events are likely unrelated, most still remain a mystery. officials suggest fireworks are likely responsible for many of the bird deaths and that unusually cold weather could be to blame for the strange mass deaths of fish and crabs. geapress suggests that the blue stains found in mouths of the dead and dying birds in italy could be the result of poisoning or possibly signs of hypoxia. both the local forest service and the wwf in faenza have sent some of the dead birds for testing, though the results likely won't be available for at least a week. thaye dorje, his holiness the 17th gyalwa karmapa, gives this message on the occasion of losar, tibetan new year: any new harvest has an auspicious ability that enables us to bear true joy for ourselves. why is this the case, when we know that losar is just another day in this world? quite simply, because we make it so! we make this day an auspicious one, not by fortune or chance, but by sheer will. every day is as insignificant as a wish-fulfilling jewel. yes, today is just like another piece of rock. however, the wilful recognition of what that day might hold, its true potential, transforms ordinary wisdom into an extraordinary one. may all of you harvest the potential of this special day, and in all days to come. a us woman soldier has been sentenced to 10 months in military prison after pleading guilty to desertion while on leave from a deployment in iraq. pte first class kimberly rivera had been serving as a base guard in baghdad when she fled to canada in 2007 with her husband and children. the 30-year-old said she had become disillusioned with the war. canadian authorities denied her request for refugee status and in 2009 threatened her with deportation. pte rivera presented herself at the us border in september 2012 and was arrested and returned to her unit's base in colorado. she pleaded guilty in a military court in fort carson on monday. in addition to 10 months imprisonment, she will receive a bad conduct discharge. during the vietnam war, more than 50,000 americans fled to canada to avoid conscription and were welcomed by canadian authorities. most returned to the us following president jimmy carter's offer of amnesty to the so-called "draft dodgers". canadian activist group war resisters support campaign says about 200 us soldiers fled to canada during the iraq war. but canada's conservative government has argued the situation has changed since the vietnam era because the us military is now an all-volunteer force. the assassination of kandahar's mayor ghulam haidar hamidi is the latest in a string of killings across the country, and the most recent for a region that appears to be deadly for high-ranking officials. - two deputy mayors of kandahar city have been gunned down by militants in the past year, according to the governor's office. - kandahar police chief khan mohammad mujahid was also killed by a suicide bomber in april. - perhaps the most high-profile attack occurred earlier this month when kandahar's provincial council chief ahmed wali karzai - the president's half-brother and an influential power-broker in country's south - was gunned down by a longtime bodyguard inside his home. the taliban also claimed responsibility for that attack, though rumors soon swirled that his death could also have been the result of a murder over personal grievances. - during a remembrance ceremony for the president's half-brother at a kandahar mosque two days after his death, a suicide bomber slipped into the building and killed six people, wounding 15 others. - within the next week, a key political adviser to the afghan president and a parliament member were gunned down in a home west of kabul. the killings have taken place just as a security transfer to afghan control and a nato draw-down is underway. the pinball fx series celebrated its 10-year anniversary this year, and developer zen studios is marking the occasion with a table giveaway. pinball fx 3's newest table pack, carnivals and legends, is out today, and it'll be available at no cost on console and pc during the week of its debut. the pack includes an amusement-park themed table, adventure land, and son of zeus, a table that has players take on the labors of hercules. they're available now on playstation 4, xbox one, nintendo switch, pc, ios, and android. the base pinball fx 3 game is a free download, in case you haven't yet taken the plunge, and it includes the sorcerer's lair table. if you're a returning player, you can import most previously purchased tables into the newest version at no additional charge. take a look at the trailer below to see the new tables. each spring, the start of the major league baseball season brings a fresh slate for teams and their fans, from the green monster in boston to dodger dogs in los angeles. but as summer fades into the shorter days of autumn, the memories of a season past extend beyond the field, reaching into the slanted seats of the upper deck, onto the crowded sidewalks in front of a ballpark. photographer ray whitehouse, a graduate student at north carolina, traveled approximately 18,000 miles over 85 days to visit the 30 major league ballparks to try to capture the game-day experience in each of these cities. the opportunity to watch each team on its home field, in front of its home crowd, kept whitehouse on the road at one stretch for 43 days as he visited 21 stadiums. at each park, he purchased the cheapest available ticket. armed with two cameras, he set out on a simple mission: to compile a portrait of america through a pastime that has so strongly influenced its identity. the playstation vita is expected to last for around three to five hours of battery life while playing games, and that's just not enough. if you're on a long flight, stuck in a boring movie, or suffering from an extreme bout of the stomach flu, you're going to want more juice. nyko has you covered with its upcoming external battery. the peripheral connects directly to the system without needing any installation, and should provide you with up to three times the amount of power as the stock battery. the grips you see in the render are retractable, allowing you to play with or without the dual-shock style appendages. sadly, i wasn't able to see a working unit, and we were told to expect the peripheral in march or april, so you're going to have to wait a bit after launch if you want to play for extended periods of time without plugging the vita into a wall socket. we're huge fans of the nyko battery that made the 3ds tolerable on the go, so we can't wait to see what the final version of this accessory looks like. if it's half as good as the 3ds version, the add-on will be a necessity, not an option. newcastle united are due to hold talks with former arsenal player and current manchester city u21 manager patrick vieira. newcastle united are due to hold talks with former arsenal player and current manchester city u21 manager patrick vieira. patrick vieira will hold talks with newcastle united in the next 48 hours over the managerial vacancy at st james' park, sky sources understand. vieira is currently on the staff at manchester city as an elite development coach but he is on a contract that is up for renewal this summer. steve mcclaren has been the bookmakers' favourite to take over from interim boss john carver, who guided newcastle to premier league safety with a final day 2-0 win over west ham. but vieira has been well backed in the last couple of days to become the odds-on favourite ahead of mcclaren, who departed derby at the end of the season after failing to guide them into the sky bet championship play-offs. according to sky sports' north-east correspondent keith downie, vieira is itching to move into senior management and newcastle are keen to find a young, hungry head coach as they look to rebuild their squad. vieira, who played more than 300 times for arsenal in a glittering playing career, has been completing his uefa pro licence on a course in wales this week. newcastle made a number of player decisions on friday, with long-serving jonas gutierrez and ryan taylor among those being released after a season that saw them in a surprise relegation dice. shark sparks panic in majorca after washing ashore on beach near palma footage has emerged of the moment a blue shark washed ashore as british holidaymakers soaked up the sun on a beach in majorca. the shark, believed to be eight feet long, sent swimmers racing for shore after it appeared in shallow waters on cala major beach, between magaluf and palma. videos show the shark thrashing in the sand as it struggles to return to open water. lifeguards raised red flags to clear holidaymakers out of the sea, before the guardia civil conducted a search of the area. image: a hook was found inside the shark's mouth the shark managed to swim back out, but was later spotted in shallow water on a beach along the coast in can pastilla. crowds watched as it was pulled from the water by lifeguards, before being put down by wildlife experts from nearby palma aquarium. it was said to have approached the packed beaches after sustaining a serious head injury caused by a harpoon. an aquarium worker said a hook was found inside its mouth "which caused it irreversible damage". the panic prompted the brief closure of the beach. it reopened hours later but lifeguards prevented holidaymakers from swimming too far out. the sightings came a day after a shark was seen swimming past children on lilos at illetas beach. a spokesman for calvia council, which covers illetas, said the shark appeared to be the same one spotted in cala major and can pastilla. the belfast giants trounced cardiff devils 8-3 on aggregate to make next weekend's play-off semi-finals. having beaten the devils 1-0 in the first leg of their quarter-final in belfast on friday, steve thornton's side took a convincing second leg win. the victory was their first in cardiff this season, at the sixth attempt, and ensures they will travel to nottingham. the giants will play coventry blaze in the last four, with sheffield steelers facing hull stingrays in the other tie. belfast were in charge throughout on sunday night and mark garside grabbed a double, with craig peacock, cody brookwell, adam keefe, nathan robinson and mike kompon also getting their names on the scoresheet. joey martin, brent walton and andrew hotham found the net for cardiff. ray sawada scored the only goal of the game in the first leg at the odyssey arena. five dead after russian helicopter shot down a russian military helicopter has been shot down in syria, killing three crew and two officers. the mi-8 transport helicopter was returning to hmeimim base in idlib province after delivering humanitarian aid to aleppo when it came under attack from the ground on monday, the russian ministry said. all five people in the aircraft were killed, according to the kremlin. images shared on social media apparently showed a dead body stripped of clothes and russian identity documents taken from the helicopter, reuters reported. image: all five people on the helicopter died the aircraft appeared to have broken up as it crashed to the ground. kremlin spokesman dmitry peskov said the helicopter had tried to veer away from populated areas to avoid civilian casualties and said the service personnel died a "heroic death". he added that moscow would continue to fight international terrorism "on all fronts", despite threats from islamic state. rebel groups are staging an offensive to break a government siege on rebel-held parts of aleppo around 25 miles from the reported crash site. pro-syrian government forces on the ground are being supported by heavy airstrikes in the same area. image: the aircraft was apparently returning from a humanitarian mission on sunday, is posted a nine-minute video on youtube calling on its members to carry out jihad in russia. in july, two russian airmen were killed in homs province when their mi-25 helicopter was shot down. the russian defence ministry said is was behind that attack. an mi-28n helicopter gunship crashed near homs in april, killing both crew members. the russian military said there was no evidence it had come under fire. some 18 russian service personnel have been killed since moscow began airstrikes in syria in september last year. at least 10 people have been killed in a roadside bomb blast that hit a minibus in north-west pakistan. the blast took place in the kurram tribal district on the border with afghanistan. at least two children were reported to be among the dead. several others injured in the blast were taken to hospital in parachinar, the capital of kurram district. the area has seen a series of attacks, including a car bomb blast in march that left 24 people dead. another attack at the town's vegetable market in january killed at least 20 people. a faction of the pakistani taliban said it carried out both attacks. parachinar is a mainly shia area and the kurram district is known for sectarian clashes. two census workers were in the minibus, according to local media reports. census workers have been targeted in the past, but it is not clear if their presence was a factor in this case. former panamanian president ricardo martinelli has been arrested in florida, the us marshals service says. it says mr martinelli, aged 65, was taken into federal custody near his home in coral gables. last year, panama made an extradition request for mr martinelli, who is accused of corruption and spying on political opponents. mr martinelli, who governed the central american nation from 2009-14, says the allegations are politically motivated. he is expected to appear before a federal judge in florida on tuesday, the us marshal service says. in 2015, panama's supreme court ordered mr martinelli's arrest over the accusations that he used public funds to illegally spy on more than 150 prominent people. among those he allegedly spied on were trade union activists, politicians, lawyers, doctors and business people. the former president - who left the country just days before the court launched a corruption investigation against him - denies the allegations. he says they are part of a political vendetta by his opponents. dubai: a saudi teacher has reportedly told the man who wanted to marry her that she had only one condition before accepting his proposal: he must marry her two friends at the school at the same time. the would-be groom was shocked by her unexpected demand, but came under strong pressure from relatives and friends who eventually persuaded him to accept to marry the three women, saudi daily al youm reported. under the deal, the bridegroom rented three apartments in the same building and lodged each of his brides in her own flat. polygamy is allowed in saudi arabia, and a man is entitled to take up to four wives, but must not differentiate between them and must treat them equally physically and emotionally and in regard to sustenance, expenditure, time and all obligations as a husband. the spice girls gave fans what they want - what they really, really want - reuniting onstage to announce the details of a musical based on their songs. producers stress that the stage show viva forever isn't a biography of the band, but there are plenty of real-life resonances for the 1990s girl power group in its tale of female empowerment and friendship tested by fame. the show opens in london in december. "we're going to be introducing a whole new generation to girl power," said victoria posh spice beckham, who attended a media launch alongside emma bunton, geri halliwell, melanie chisholm and melanie brown - also known as baby, ginger, sporty and scary spice. viva forever aims to tap the same vast female fan base as world-conquering abba musical mamma mia, which has been produced in 14 languages and spawned a hit film starring meryl streep. the spice girls show tells the story of four friends whose bond becomes strained when their band enters a tv talent show. president donald trump hinted wednesday that more information will be released over the coming weeks regarding his claim that the government electronically eavesdropped on trump tower before last fall's election. "wiretap covers a lot of different things. i think you're going to find some very interesting items coming to the forefront over the next two weeks," trump said during an interview with fox news' tucker carlson that will air wednesday night. the white house has stuck to its story that trump tower was bugged leading up to the election despite calls from both sides of the aisle that there is no evidence. some trump supporters, however, have requested an investigation into the claims. earlier this week, white house press secretary sean spicer said trump was referring to "surveillance" on his manhattan building, a much broader term than wiretapping. tom pope claimed a late winner to give in-form bury a 2-1 home victory against chesterfield in league one. zeli ismail volleyed the hosts into a 41st-minute lead, only for kristian dennis to equalise three minutes later. but, after an even second half, pope headed home three minutes from time to secure a fifth straight win for the shakers and put them second in the table. the hosts made a positive start with chesterfield debutant liam graham blocking an ismail shot before the bury winger fired wide from a jacob mellis through-ball. dennis then failed to connect with a jay o'shea cross, while ismail was denied by goalkeeper ryan fulton. the game finally calmed down before conor wilkinson's free-kick struck a bury post, and moments later ismail volleyed home. dennis soon bundled in an equaliser from wilkinson's pass and, after the break, o'shea's 20-yard shot deflected on to the roof of the bury net. the shakers were not to be denied victory and claimed all three points when substitute tom walker delivered a diagonal ball from the left and pope got in front of his man to steer in his fifth goal of the season. report supplied by the press association. remember when yahoo was your go-to search engine for browsing the web? it might be again soon, at least if you're a firefox user. mozilla and yahoo just announced a five year deal to make yahoo the web browser's default search engine, supplanting google as the top item in firefox's search bar in the united states. mozilla says this is part of providing a more "local" experience -- until now, the company defaulted to google search regardless of the user's country. now the default search engine will be assigned by region: yahoo for the united states, yandex search for russia and baidu for china. each region will have the ability to switch to other local options as well, giving googlers a chance to switch back if they so desire. two artists sharing a similar sense of accelerated momentum in their careers right now, cristoph and jeremy olander unite to create two beautiful sessions for the perennial bedrock foundation. cristoph is fresh off an american tour supporting eric prydz and a cannon of releases on influential imprints such as truesoul, knee deep in sound, yousefs circus and more recently, last night on earth. jeremy olander, with an impending north american of his own, is similarly in-demand. much thanks to his consistent chart-topping dispatches on his own vivrant label plus releases with the likes of spanish power house suara, pryda and microcastle. with key melodic and evocative signatures, it was only a matter of time before they joined forces. and john digweeds imprint is the perfect home for the goods. last dance, takes the lead on the ep and is a track that really does live up to its name. galvanised by that all essential sense of poignancy and soft-focus feel-good theme all end-of-night finales require, its one for the dreamers as the pair set off daydream fireworks and total skin-ripples with the subtle use of a house spirited vocal. the type of track that lingers in your soul far longer than its eight minutes, its an emotional ending to a remarkable collaborative release. lets hope they collide again in the future. next up: the smouldering dimensionsis at first unassuming, but weighted with a certain sense of suspense, its not until were three minutes in that we realise the trouble were in cristoph and jeremy have us under soul arrest and, as the track rises and rises with steam engine thrusts, its clear theyve thrown away the key. when altspacevr announced that it was staying open after threatening to close its doors, it said it was "deep in discussions" with people who were passionate about it. apparently one of those people was microsoft, because the software giant has just announced that it's acquiring altspacevr, officially providing windows mixed reality with a social vr solution. "with the altspacevr team onboard we look forward to building the world's preeminent mixed reality community," said alex kipman, microsoft's mixed reality head, in a statement. if you're not familiar with altspacevr, it's sort of like a second life for vr. even though altspacevr has only been around for a few years, it already has competition in the social vr space. its biggest rival is arguably facebook spaces, which is the social network's attempt at a virtual hangout space. of course, spaces' big benefit is that it makes use of your existing facebook network. but altspacevr has had successes too. it partnered with nbc to broadcast last year's presidential debates in vr and it's even hosted virtual comedy shows from reggie watts and paul scheer. altspacevr is accessible with google daydream, samsung's gear vr, the oculus rift and the htc vive. with the microsoft acquisition, it's likely that altspacevr will be available on windows mixed reality headsets as well. japanese authorities may have underestimated by 20 percent the radiation doses workers got in the initial phase of the fukushima nuclear disaster, a un panel has said. a big earthquake and tsunami in march 2011 damaged the power station 150 miles north of tokyo, causing three partial reactor meltdowns. the operator, tepco, has struggled to contain leaking radiation ever since. the un scientific committee on the effects of atomic radiation raised doubts about the dose estimates of the government and tepco, in a summary of a report on october 12, according to the asahi shimbun newspaper on saturday. the un committee analysed radiation doses in 25,000 people who worked at the station on or before october 2012, using data provided by the government, tepco and others, the newspaper said. it determined that the tests used on workers did not take into account some types of radiation. in particular, workers were tested for thyroid gland doses from radioactive iodine after a significant delay, through procedures that failed to account for iodine-132 and iodine-133, which have half-lives of two hours and 20 hours respectively. the asahi shimbun said if the un panel's assessment was accurate, more workers would be eligible for free health checks. it did not give any detail of the implications on the health of the workers. increased radiation exposure has been linked to greater rates of cancer and thyroid disorders. syria has been planting landmines along the country's border with lebanon as syrian refugees leave the country to escape the government's crackdown against protesters, reports the associated press. more than 5,000 syrians have fled to lebanon since the uprisings began in march, and the exodus of syrians to both lebanon and turkey has been an embarrassment to syrian president bashar al assad, reports the associated press. the mines have become the latest in a series of signs that syria is working to prevent lebanon from becoming a safe haven for the syrian opposition. the move betrays syria's increasing isolation in the region since the protests against assad's regime began eight months ago. more from globalpost: syrian president warns against western interference. however, according to a syrian official, the anti-personnel mines are to prevent arms being smuggled into syria. "syria has undertaken many measures to control the borders, including planting mines," the official told the associated press. syria borders five countries, with which it shares both religious and ethnic minorities. it is an ally to lebanon's hezbollah movement and iran's shiite theocracy. recently, turkey which was an ally, opened its border to anti-assad activists and military rebels, reports the afp. more from globalpost: syria tries to rebrand its government. popular sny new york mets analyst keith hernandez remains a free agent, but contract negotiations to remain with the mets-oriented regional sports network are expected to begin shortly, now that the christmas and new year's holidays have passed. hernandez, 62, has been a commentator on mets telecasts on sny for 10 seasons. he has been joined by play-by-play announcer gary cohen and fellow analyst ron darling to form one of the most beloved broadcast teams in sports. while sny's booth for mets games has been stable since the network's inception a decade ago, there recently has been turnover with on-air talent covering the team. after studio analyst bobby ojeda had a contract impasse last winter, he was replaced by former mets pitcher nelson figueroa. meanwhile, field reporter kevin burkhardt left for a high-profile gig with fox after the 2014 season, leading to steve gelbs taking over in that role. prior to atletico madrid's match against real betis on sunday, falcao had missed three matches with a hamstring injury. so as he prepared to make his comeback, he wanted to make sure everything was just right. including the music playing over the vicente calderon's pa system as atletico warmed up before the match. unhappy with the song playing as he and his teammates got loose, falcao repeatedly gestured to members of atletico's staff to express his dissatisfaction. a game of whisper down the lane was then played by people who looked like they really did not want to be playing it and falcao's wish was granted. "gangnam style" then started blaring throughout the stadium because falcao is apparently the only person on the planet who isn't sick of that song yet. atletico went on to win 1-0 and falcao played 80 minutes. bbc news, jakarta a muslim cleric has caused public outrage in indonesia after marrying a 12-year-old girl. pujianto cahyo widianto married the girl in the central java city of semarang, during an unofficial religious ceremony. he reportedly chose her from a pool of 20 girls, before flying to singapore with his new bride, as well as his first wife. police have launched an investigation into the incident. possible charges investigators from indonesia's child protection agency said mr widianto had chosen the girl based on her intelligence, maturity and physical development. they said mr widianto, who runs an islamic boarding school, had planned to put the child in charge of his second business - a calligraphy workshop. it is unclear if the marriage has been consummated. if it has, mr widianto could face charges under child protection, marriage and labour laws. he is reported to have justified his actions by saying he was emulating islam's prophet muhammad, and that he would wait until his wife reached puberty before having sex with her. but there has been fierce reaction to the marriage within indonesia. a senior member of the prominent islamic party, pks, said he thought mr widianto was wrong in what he was doing, and wrong in his thinking about islam. police say they have not asked singapore to extradite the cleric, but are continuing investigations. fantasy flight games is proud to announce the runewars miniatures game essentials pack, an expansion that gives you all the non-figure components you need to field an army in the runewars miniatures game. tokens, templates, references, cards, and dice are all included in the essentials pack, providing an exciting starting point for new players, or extra components for a veteran to the battles of terrinoth. resources of war the runewars essentials pack pairs with any army expansion, like the upcoming latari elves army expansion, to give you all the tools you need to field your own army in the runewars miniatures game. the runewars miniatures game essentials pack includes four terrain pieces with matching cards six objective cards six deployment cards thirty morale cards ten upgrade cards four reference cards four deployment markers eight objective markers ten wound tokens five energy tokens twenty-two boon and bane tokens twelve unit id tokens one round counter nine movement templates six attack dice many of these components are identical to the ones in the runewars miniatures game core set, including the ten upgrade cards, and allow players to immediately jump into the world of terrinoth with high-quality components. build your army objective and deployment cards will ensure that every game of runewars miniatures game you play will be a different experience every time. with the runewars miniatures game essentials pack, the world of terrinoth is at your fingertips. democrat elizabeth warren is neck and neck with republican sen. scott brown in the massachusetts senate race, according to a new poll released tuesday. the poll, conducted by massachusetts think tank massinc for the boston npr station wbur, finds that 46 percent of likely voters in the state said they would vote for warren, while 43 percent said they would vote for brown. that's within the poll's margin of error. the poll is the first to be conducted in the state since early december, but confirms that the race is likely to be a tightly fought one. the new survey finds that both candidates are fairly popular in the state, although fewer have formed an opinion about warren -- either because they hadn't heard of her or because they were undecided. fifty percent of respondents have a favorable opinion of brown and 29 percent have an unfavorable opinion, while 39 percent of respondents view warren favorably and 29 percent view her unfavorably. brown leads 53 percent to 32 percent among those who have not listed their party affiliation or are something other than democrat or republican. those voters have a mostly favorable opinion of brown, whereas only 20 percent say they have a favorable opinion of warren and 35 percent have an unfavorable opinion of her. in the presidential race, the poll shows that voters would choose president barack obama over former massachusetts gov. mitt romney 55 to 34 percent and would pick obama over former house speaker newt gingrich 66 to 19 percent. fans expecting last minute seats at the western bulldogs versus essendon clash at etihad stadium were destined for disappointment on sunday, with only standing room tickets available to the general public and some club members. bulldogs members with general admission memberships were unable to secure a seat for the game on the morning of the match, with standing room or more expensive premium seats their only options. fans expecting a general admission seat to the clash are being turned away. credit:pat scala bulldogs general admission members could still scan into etihad stadium prior to the bounce however there were only standing room spots available. some members with small children chose to watch the game from the big screen above gate three while others went home, their children too small to see from standing room positions. rookie bruce miller, a 49ers 7th round draft pick, was activated from the physically unable to perform list today and was at practice in pads, according to matt maiocco. miller is a 6'2, 255 former defensive end out of ucf, but was told by the 49ers that he'd be converted to fullback this season. he played tight end in high school and the 49ers worked him out as a fullback pre-draft; apparently they liked him enough there to draft him in the 7th round. miller will be gunning for starting fullback moran norris' job, but he'll face competition from recently signed titans' practice squad fb jack corcoran. undrafted free agent rookie konrad reuland and former 49ers practice squad tight end colin cloherty are expected to compete in camp in the h-back role as well, meaning they'll both likely see time at fullback as well. altogether this means that miller will have to show that he's fully recovered from the shoulder injury that sidelined him if he hopes to secure a roster spot. according to a report in the mirror, there is some good injury news coming for arsenal. mikel arteta and lukas podolski could be returning from their long-term injuries much sooner than originally expected. arteta suffered a thigh injury before the start of the season and was expected to be out until at least october. but it now appears he could be ready to play as soon as next week, when arsenal face west bromwich albion in the capital one cup. podolski suffered a hamstring injury against fenerbahce in the champions league qualifier, and was expected to be out until late october or november. he now could be ready as soon as the end of september. this is really good news coming off the report this afternoon from arsene wenger that santi cazorla will be missing until early next month. it's even better once you look at arsenal's upcoming fixture list; it's crowded, as you might expect from a team trying to compete on four fronts. without reserves that would be a very tough task, but it looks like we may be just a few weeks away from getting reinforcements back. roma thrashed rock-bottom pescara 4-1 to move back to within eight points of serie a leaders juventus on monday night and officially relegate the dolphins. three goals in the space of five minutes -- albeit interrupted by the half-time interval -- ensured the points went back to rome as the capital club kept their slim hopes of denying juve a sixth straight serie a title alive with five games remaining. kevin strootman broke the deadlock in the 44th minute as he fired home from a central position and before pescara could gather themselves, radja nainggolan doubled the lead on the stroke of half-time. three minutes into the second half, mohamed salah's shot from outside the area found the bottom left corner of vincenzo fiorillo's net and it was the egyptian again to score roma's fourth on the hour mark. roma passed up a series of chances to add to their lead and instead it was pescara who had the final word, with ahmed benali turning in ledian memushaj's cross with seven minutes left. pescara made an immediate return to serie b after winning the promotion playoffs a year ago. after managing just two wins from 33 games they can no longer catch 17th-placed empoli, who are 15 points ahead and have secured the head-to-head tiebreaker. five people have been hospitalized after eating nacho cheese from a sacramento gas station, california officials said. officials have connected five botulism illness cases to valley oak food and fuel gas station in the walnut grove suburb, the sacramento bee reported. officials believe the culprit is nacho cheese, but the investigation is ongoing. sacramento health officials are also looking into four cases that may be related. botulism, a rare food poisoning, can lead to paralysis, breathing difficulty and sometimes death. one of the people sickened last month has filed a lawsuit against the gas station. lavinia kelly has been in the hospital for three weeks and is unable to speak. kelly also can't keep her eyelids open, her partner, ricky torres said. officials have stripped the gas station of its permit to sell food and drinks. employees have not responded to requests for comment. while a star wars tv series may seem like a natural progression to the fans, especially with the previously-developed star wars underworld looming in the background, it doesn't sound like anything is being actively developed at the moment. "they are focused on their movies, so we don't have any plans at the moment," abc president paul lee told tvline in regards to star wars. the focus, then for star wars on tv is currently star wars rebels, a series in the middle of its second season and already renewed for a third. that series, taking place in-between the eras of the first two trilogies, has woven characters new and old, including this week's appearance by princess leia, onto the show. being animated gives them the liberty of more easily revisiting characters from early moments in their lives. now, technically, lee was only speaking for abc. there are also recurring rumors that netflix could work on a star wars live-action series with disney, and surely their working relationship between netflix and marvel has been working nicely for all involved. the nature of lucasfilm, as well, is one of no asset ever truly going away, so underworld could show up - at least partially - in other projects. some of the assets developed by the defunct lucasarts games branch were used on the clone wars, and planned to be used for underworld, for example. as lawmakers across the country look to tighten gun laws, georgia legislators on thursday debated a bill to allow more mentally ill people to obtain licenses to carry guns, the associated press reported. legislation up for a vote thursday would allow people who have voluntarily sought inpatient treatment for mental illness or substance abuse to get such licenses. the same bill also attempts to make it easier for officials to check on whether applicants have ever received involuntary treatment. georgia also may change its laws to allow people to carry guns in churches, bars and on college campuses. currently, it is up to a judge whether to issue a carry license to someone who has received inpatient mental health or substance abuse treatment in the last five years. dozens of people have been killed in a wave of at least 11 attacks in iraq, some targeting the security forces. in the deadliest single incident, 11 soldiers died in a shooting and bombing attack on an army base near baghdad. two car bombs killed a total of at least 14 people and wounded than 60 near the south-eastern city of amara, according to local officials. sunni insurgents linked to al-qaeda have been blamed for much of the recent violence in iraq. the army base, in the balad district north of baghdad, was initially attacked by armed insurgents, who then detonated a number of improvised explosive devices at the base. a bomb near the northern city of kirkuk killed seven police who were applying for jobs with the state-run northern oil company, according to police spokesmen. sectarian tensions reports suggested there had been a total of at least 11 attacks across the country, killing at least 45 people and injuring scores more. in another of the incidents, a bomb also exploded near the french consulate in the city of nasiriya to the south of baghdad, with two casualties reported. the latest violence comes only days after eight people were killed on attacks on shia muslim places of worship in kirkuk. meanwhile a court on sunday has passed a death sentence on vice-president tariq al-hashemi, who has been tried in absentia and convicted of running death squads. a leading sunni politician, mr hashemi fled iraq in december after the shia-dominated government tried to arrest him. although violence has decreased since its peak in 2006 and 2007, attacks have escalated again after the withdrawal of us troops from iraq at the end of last year, and amid increasing political and sectarian tensions. a left wing ngo's bus was the victim of a rock throwing attack near hebron in the west bank friday, lightly wounding three. the assailants who carried out the attack in south mount hebron were palestinian children, breaking the silence told haaretz. the three wounded were participating on a breaking the silence tour at the time of the attack. the group, which was founded by veterans of the israel defense force, is involved in exposing claims of army misconduct in the palestinian territories. the veterans run tours around the west bank to 'break the silence' or tell of their darker idf experiences, while returning to areas where similar human rights violations are said to be taking place. "to everyone's benefit, no one involved was seriously wounded," said the breaking the silence spokesperson of the incident. "this is the reality in the territories and we are working to change it," he said. breaking the silence has recently come under fire after a right wing ngo released a video calling them 'moles' and accused the organization of treason. in the ensuing days, israeli ministers have denounced the group, and education minister naftali bennett banned them from entering schools. a shooting killed a 40-year-old man in montgomery county after police say he came after a homeowner with an ax. investigators say around 11:30 last night, montgomery county sheriffs deputies were called to a home in the 16000 block of suzanne in northeast montgomery county. when deputies arrived they found the victim had been shot in the chest by the homeowner. he was taken by ambulance to a local conroe hospital where he was pronounced dead. his name has not been released. detectives say the homeowner and shooting victim were arguing at a house nearby and then the shooting victim drove his vehicle through the yard of another home making threats to the family. investigators say he took out an ax to confront the homeowner. the homeowner armed himself with a gun and shot the victim in the chest. no charges have been filed against the homeowner. after my first three days attempting to thru-hike the arizona trail, i decided to get off the trail and re-group. i spent two days exploring the campground at patagonia lake state park with my aunt. during this time, i washed my clothes in a bucket, went through my pack and tossed out any unnecessary items, and continued to communicate with my hiking partner in hopes that we would get back on the trail soon. during one afternoon, my aunt and i went to the marina to see about renting kayaks to tour around the lake. a very nice gentleman running the marina offered to take us on a quick pontoon boat ride to tour the lake since the wind was too fierce for a kayak trip. the lake and state park were beautiful with lots of little primitive campsites tucked away which are only accessible by boat. the two days i spent at patagonia lake with my aunt after the first three days hiking the azt were perfect. i believe that things happen for a reason, and even though i was feeling pretty low having to get off the trail so soon, the time spent at the lake was very special. the lucas museum passed its final big hurdle to becoming a reality near chicago's lakefront when city council gave full approval for the museum plans in a vote wednesday. the "star wars" director plans to build the 300,000-square-foot museum, called the lucas museum of narrative art, along lake michigan near soldier field. earlier this month, the chicago park district approved a deal to lease seven acres of land near soldier field for the project. a week later, a city zoning committee recommended approval of the museum. the museum faces one more snag, however. the non-profit group friends of the park, which is lobbying to keep the museum from being built on public land along the lake, has filed a lawsuit against the museum. the group argues that the museum will ruin the character of the lake michigan shoreline. those behind the plans for the museum intend on building and maintaining several thousand square feet of new greenery along the lakefront. they say the construction and maintenance of the facility and green space will not cost chicago taxpayers, however. the same day that city council voted to allow museum plans to proceed, the chicago bears and the chicago park district reached a deal concerning game-day parking, according to the chicago sun-times. among the conditions of the agreement is the relocation of tailgating spots on the south lot to the "event prairie" tailgating lawn, the top of a new parking garage on 18th street and "various other places on the museum campus in grant park," the sun-times reports. construction on the museum is slated to begin no sooner than march 1 with an opening date as early as 2019, according to the associated press. wolves ended a run of six home games without a win as they beat midlands rivals birmingham at molineux. the victory came courtesy of a marlon king own goal and also helped ease the pressure on wolves manager stale solbakken. blues striker king sliced a bakary sako free-kick into his own net after 34 minutes and his side failed to recover. wolves applied plenty of pressure in the second half but could not get a second goal before seeing out the win. wolves had beaten bristol city last time out and overcoming the blues gave them back-to-back wins for only the second time this season. the defeat added to birmingham's struggles and, despite starting promisingly, they went behind. king's attempted clearance at the near post only resulted in him diverting sako's free-kick past his own keeper jack butland. wolves should have put the game beyond birmingham's reach in the second half but kevin doyle shot wide, while the impressive butland saved from stephen ward. butland's performance will have enhanced his reputation and he pulled off a superb instinctive save to keep out bjorn sigurdarson's header. the blues keeper even went up for a late corner but the visitors could not find an equaliser. emboldened by the destruction of enemy structures, the ancients have long had the ability to transform their creeps into larger, more imposing warriors to push even further into enemy strongholds. but a new transformation is afoot. now the dire creeps become more dire, the radiant more radiant, each kind taking on architectural characteristics of their ancient's fortifications. when the end is nigh, your creep waves will bring death to your enemy's doorstep. heroic effigies those who purchased this year's compendium for the international have a new way to display their heroism! heroic effigies are a new customization feature allowing players to sculpt their favorite hero, along with any items they have equipped, into a statue for their team's base. to craft an effigy, first grab your effigy block of triumph, and then use it to open the sculptor menu and begin posing your hero. after you've set your statue's equipment, pose, and written your inscription, you're ready to create your effigy. once equipped from your loadout, your heroic effigy will appear in your team's base for all to see. australian mining companies are linked to hundreds of deaths and injuries in africa, which can go unreported at home. some of the australian securities exchange-listed companies include state governments as shareholders. one company recorded 38 worker deaths over an eleven-year period. in malawi, litigation continues against paladin africa limited, a subsidiary of perth-based paladin energy, and its subcontractor after an explosion disfigured one worker with such heat that his skin shattered when touched by rescuers. two others died in the same incident. other allegations include employees in south africa hacking a woman with a machete and malian police killing two protesters after a mine worker reportedly asked authorities to dislodge a barricade on the road to the mine. an investigation by the international consortium of investigative journalists, in collaboration with 13 african reporters, uncovered locally-filed lawsuits, violent protests and community petitions criticising some australian companies. in all, reporters counted more than 380 employees, subcontractors and community members in 13 countries who died in accidents or incidents linked to the companies since the beginning of 2004, including some who were shot to death. more were horribly disfigured or injured while working at australian mines or during community protests against them. a huge regional trade agreement which would underpin barack obama's "pivot" to asia could be sealed within weeks, says trade minister andrew robb. the catch, however, is that a fast-track approval process from the us congress has failed to materialise, thanks to a wild-card democratic senator, elizabeth warren, as she positions to woo left-leaning voters from hillary clinton ahead of the coming presidential race. the us-led trans-pacific partnership, covering 12 countries and 40 per cent of the world economy, is tipped to entrench an open, rules-based economic system in the asia pacific region, according to experts in washington and canberra. mr robb and other close observers have told fairfax that negotiators are poised to strike a ground-breaking deal which would bring huge economic benefits to australia and mark a major strategic win for the united states, as it wrestles with china for regional leadership. david nofoaluma and jared waerea-hargreaves can both escape one-match bans with early guilty pleas after the pair were cited by the nrl match review committee on sunday afternoon. hargreaves was slapped with a grade 1 dangerous contact for his challenge on wests tigers half tui lolohea in the roosters win over the warriors. nofoaluma was also charged with a grade 1 dangerous contact for his tackle on rooster ryan matterson. both players can avoid suspension with an early plea, but would risk a one match ban if they fought the charge at the nrl judiciary and lost. sharks duo wade graham and james maloney were both charged but will only face monetary fines. graham was charged with a careless high tackle on cowboys opposite michael morgan, while maloney was charged for tripping ethan lowe. in my experience as a sociologist, i see many ways in which gender sociology tends to insulate itself from challenges to its own sacred beliefs and sacred causes. the sacred beliefs are to the effect that the biological differences between the sexes are minor and that the cultural differences between the genders have little basis in biological differences. the scholarly findings that challenge the sacred beliefs come from anthropology, developmental psychology, evolutionary psychology, the neurosciences, genetics, biology, and many other fields. for many decades now researchers have amassed findings of differences in competitiveness, aggression, sexual interest, risk behavior, and many other traits, and differences in brain physiology and neuroimaging, by many different methods and approaches. i investigated a sample of top cited gender sociology papers to test my impression, and indeed the findings illustrate extreme insularity. it saddens me to see students and scholars fall into insular communities of highly dubious sacred beliefs and causes. i propose that gender sociologists strive to undo insularity. a ballet teacher allegedly abducted a male pupil and had sex with him during a three-month affair. sarah pirie, 27, who has choreographed stage shows across britain and has appeared in tv soaps hollyoaks and waterloo road, is accused of taking the boy, aged 15, to hotels where she seduced him. yesterday scots-born pirie, formerly of st annes, lancashire, appeared before magistrates in blackpool in relation to the claims. ballet teacher: sarah pirie allegedly abducted a male pupil and had sex with him during a three-month affair she faces five charges of intentionally sexually touching the boy, who is training to be a ballet dancer, but cannot be named for legal reasons. banker's daughter pirie, formerly a teacher at a dance school on the fylde coast, is alleged to have taken the teenager to hotels in manchester for sex. she is accused of committing the offences between march and june last year and is also charged with abducting the teenage pupil from blackpool on one occasion in may. pirie, who is now living in mamer, luxembourg, spoke only to confirm her name and address at the two minute hearing. her lawyer, trevor colebourne, told the court his client would be pleading not guilty to all the charges. prosecutor pam smith asked for the case to be heard at crown court. the chairman of the bench granted pirie bail to april 30 when her case will be committed to the higher court. pirie, whose father is a wealthy banker in luxembourg, trained at the hammond school in chester, before launching her career as a dancer and choreographer. originally from leuchars, near dundee, pirie has starred in and choreographed various musicals and pantomimes across the country. britain's national archives have released records showing then prime minister winston churchill's attempts to cover up a nazi plot to collaborate with members of the british royal family. the elaborate plan to install the duke of windsor as king, should the nazis successfully invade britain, involved luring the abdicated king out of neutral portugal to spain to offer him a deal. top secret memos, made available on thursday, showed how churchill tried to stall the publication of the plot after world war ii as he was worried about how the royal couple would be perceived. churchill even asked president dwight eisenhower in 1953 to delay publication of the memos. the nazi plot failed, and the memos were eventually published in 1957 when churchill was no longer prime minister. google keep's new feature will help you find notes old and new even if you never even bothered slapping a label on them. the free app now organizes your notes based on automatically created topics, such as food, places and travel. even better, you can look for entries simply by clicking on the search bar to bring up topic shortcuts you can access. google didn't exactly explain how it works, but keep likely takes cues from the words you use. if you write down "pack for trip to paris," the app will automatically associate that entry with travel. useful, especially if you're too lazy to organize your to-do lists and "notes to self" manually. the new feature is now live on android and ios, as well as for keep on the web. there is a recording studio under the streets of gowanus, complete with a staircase that leads down to some murky waters detached from the superfund site, part of a pond that lives underneath the neighborhood. the studio has been there since 1979, and bands like sonic youth, dresden dolls, afrika bambaata, and fab five freddy have all recorded in the now-legendary space. we dropped by this week as owner and producer martin bisi prepares for a documentary about his place to hit the big screen, and you can click through for a look inside. we've visited a lot of recording studios, and this one delivers on the aesthetic we'd expect, right down to the old couch you don't really want to sit on! every studio worth its weight in gold records has got one of those. martin still runs bc studios, which he founded with bill laswell and brian eno way back when "there were wild packs of dogs running around" the area. you can learn more tomorrow night at the premiere of sound and chaos: the story of bc studio at anthology film archives. two years ago for halloween i had a mask made for a costume which, while a lot of fun, made it hard to interact with people at halloween parties. last year i wanted something that wouldn't require me to wear anything special and i hit on the idea of a ventriloquist dummy. i'm not any good at ventriloquism so i thought it would be easier to bring him to life than me learn how to throw my voice. rather than re-invent the wheel i thought it'd be better to find a toy that already did what i wanted and use those mechanics to bring my dummy to life. here is what i did and how i did it. i didn't track the time but it took about 3 weeks of a few hours here and there and a lot of trial and error. in the end i didn't actually need to re-wire anything and the guts of the toy would have enabled even more actions if the dummy supported it. elephants have been known to mourn and bury their lost loved ones. there is footage of elephants even shedding tears as they bury their dead and it can take as long as 3 days for an elephant to leave the side of a loved one who has passed. if a mother elephant loses a child, she will always at some point return to the spot where her child is buried to mourn, sometimes years after the death. when lawrence anthony, "the elephant whisperer", who lived among the elephants for a time, passed away, elephants came to his house and mourned for a day and a half. no one knows how they knew he had passed, but 2 herds who had not visited for over a year arrived and grieved outside of his home. as humans, it is often hard to believe that other creatures are as capable of love as we are. the way that elephants mourn and love each other has to make you believe that there is some greater purpose to their lives than simply surviving. selection by consumers has led to the evolution of a vast array of defenses in animals and plants. these defenses include physical structures, behaviors, and chemical signals that mediate interactions with predators. some of the strangest defensive structures in nature are the globiferous pedicellariae of the echinoderms. these are small venomous appendages with jaws and teeth that cover the test of many sea urchins and sea stars. in this study, we report a unique use of these defensive structures by the collector sea urchin tripneustes gratilla. in both the laboratory and the field, globiferous pedicellariae were unpalatable to fish consumers. when subject to simulated predator attack, sea urchins released a cloud of pedicellaria heads into the water column. flume experiments established the presence of a waterborne cue associated with this release of pedicellariae that is deterrent to predatory fish. these novel results add to our understanding of how the ecosystem-shaping sea urchin t. gratilla is able to reach high densities in many reef habitats, with subsequent impacts on algal cover. this is the reality president obama recognized by calling for expanding social security. he wasn't very clear about what exactly he had in mind, and his staff says greater detail probably won't be forthcoming during his remaining term in office. but they alluded to ideas that have been floating around in democratic circles for some time and have been embraced by sanders or hillary clinton or both. sanders advocates a general benefit increase and a higher minimum benefit for low-income retirees, clinton proposes higher survivor benefits and both call for a caregiver credit that gives women who have spent their working lives raising a family or caring for elderly or sick family members a claim on retirement benefits of their own. both also advocate raising the payroll tax cap to bring more revenue into the system. at andy's auto sport, we carry a huge selection of pontiac gto parts. we have everything from affordable gto aftermarket parts to high-end pontiac gto performance parts. we have an excellent selection of gto custom parts, like body kits, carbon hoods, custom seats, and rims, to name a few. we also carry the factory-grade replacement gto parts too, including gto engine parts, gto body parts, and other gto auto parts. so please take a look at our gto parts selection. we're confident you'll enjoy the experience! at andy's auto sport, we carry a huge selection of pontiac gto parts. we have everything from affordable gto aftermarket parts to high-end pontiac gto performance parts. we have an excellent selection of gto custom parts, like body kits, carbon hoods, custom seats, and rims, to name a few. we also carry the factory-grade replacement gto parts too, including gto engine parts, gto body parts, and other gto auto parts. so please take a look at our gto parts selection. we're confident you'll enjoy the experience! "aftermarket" is a term used to describe parts that are not made by the factory. so for example, for your pontiac gto, if you buy parts for your car that are not actually made by pontiac, then those are termed "aftermarket". many people use the term "gto aftermarket parts" specifically when referring to custom parts for the gto, like performance parts or custom appearance parts. but even if you just replace your gto brake pads with oem-grade factory-style brake pads that are not made by pontiac, those too are aftermarket gto parts. over the course of a vehicle's life, it almost certainly will have aftermarket parts installed in it at some point, even if the vehicle is never actually "modded out". delhi captain gautam gambhir was handed a four-match suspended ban from first-class cricket for his altercation with coach kp bhaskar in march this year. a three-member independent inquiry committee, set up by justice vikramjit sen, comprising madan lal, rajendra rathore and soni singh, found gambhir guilty of "seriously inappropriate behaviour". the committee, however, suspended the punishment for a two-year period, ending on march 19, 2019, contingent on gambhir accepting the ruling. during this year's vijay hazare trophy, gambhir had criticised bhaskar of creating an insecure environment for youngsters. subsequently, the ddca set up a committee to investigate the argument. "the committee members agree that considering the above facts and circumstances that have come to light, mr gambhir's actions towards mr pillai with premeditated intent to humiliate the coach were highly inappropriate and of serious nature," sen said in a statement. "the position of a coach among the team members is of high respect and dignity. it is a serious disgrace to a coach to be humiliated in front of team members by one of the team members even though if it is a senior player. "the actions of mr gambhir, however well intended, cannot be said to be in the interest of the team, or its performance or the game as it was done on the very last day of the season and therefore could not have been any corrective effect," the statement said. among other decisions, the committee also recommended the creation of a grievance-redressal system for players and framing of disciplinary-action rules that would inform them of the consequences of a transgression. "it is also recommended that disciplinary action rules and mechanism of imposing penalty are required to be formulated to inculcate discipline in the team members and for predictability and deterrence, where players know that an act of indiscipline would have serious repercussions and are therefore deterred from committing them," sen said. julia gillard has accused the coalition of lying about tony abbott having a visit to afghanistan already locked in when she invited him to accompany her over the weekend. the prime minister hit back at opposition claims that she had politicised the war while the former chief of army peter leahy urged both leaders to stop squabbling over equipment and troop numbers and instead articulate what they are trying to achieve by deploying troops to afghanistan. when the herald reported that mr abbott had declined an invitation to accompany ms gillard to afghanistan on the weekend, mr abbott explained he did not want to be jet-lagged on arrival in birmingham for the british conservative party's annual conference, to which he had been invited. the jet lag comment caused outrage and mr abbott acknowledged his ''poor choice of words''. so i had a weird situation with this one. my original match didn't contact me until after the deadline due to life stuff so i was automatically rematched. i didn't notice until after my original match had sent a gift and had no way of letting the rematcher know. last week she did email me and i let her know the situation and that i wouldn't hold her to sending a gift as i had received a very nice one already. she insisted and yesterday i got a really great letter and gift. being a mom to young children they are usually the way to my heart and she figured this out. she sent 2 sets of blank watercolor cards and 2 water color sets so that the twins can make cards for friends and family. i also received a bunch of fun colorful pens just for me. thank you for being so thoughtful i can't wait to see what the kids paint! a shirley, long island man was shot and killed after authorities say he shot at police late friday night. the incident began after police responded to a noise complaint at a house party at carlton drive east near startler drive. officers were called after neighbors heard a man yelling and firing a weapon. according to the suffolk county police, when police approached the rear of the home, a man came to the door armed with a shotgun and began firing at the officers. the officers returned fire and took cover. police say the man retreated into the house and several minutes later he exited the home by the front door and fired a rifle at officers in the street. officers returned fire and struck the shooter, who was pronounced dead at the scene. authorities say the shooter, who was wearing a helmet and a ballistic vest, had fired at least 15 rounds at police. detectives believe they know the identity of the shooter but have not yet been able to locate next of kin detectives also say the man was yelling something about mayor michael bloomberg when they confronted him. a chinese fishing boat has been detained by japan's coast guard for allegedly fishing inside japanese waters, chinese officials say. the boat was seized on saturday near japan's kagoshima prefecture, china's xinhua news agency reported, citing the chinese consulate in fukuoka, japan. the captain had admitted entering japanese waters, xinhua said. the incident comes months after anti-japanese protests in chinese cities over disputed islands near taiwan. the captain and two crew members have been taken to kagoshima for questioning while six other sailors remained on board the boat, which comes from fujian province in south-east china, xinhua said. a chinese consulate official has been sent to kagoshima to visit the crew members, the report added. relations between japan and china have been strained over the disputed islands, known as the diaoyu in chinese and senkaku in japanese. japan controls the islands, which are also claimed by taiwan. close to strategically important shipping lanes, the waters around the islands also offer rich fishing grounds and are thought to contain oil deposits. this is a very simple mod. i just added the ability to hack terminals and pick locks to every companion in the vanilla game. without this mod only cait is able to pick locks and only nick is able to hack terminals. with this mod every companion is able to do that. it's slightly immersion breaking that every companion can hack and pick locks but it enables you to play the game without taking the lockpicking and hacking perks every single playthrough. a tribute to jimmy hill, who passed away in december 2015 having made a remarkable impact on football. his career was unique, taking in virtually every role in the sport. a tribute to jimmy hill, who passed away in december 2015 having made a remarkable impact on football and football culture. his career was unique, taking in virtually every role in the sport, from the pitch to the dugout, the boardroom to the television studio. after retiring from playing, hill became manager of coventry city where he pioneered new ways of developing the club's image and its relationship with fans. he was similarly forward-thinking when he moved into influential roles in broadcasting and went on to become an iconic and long-running presenter of match of the day. but perhaps hill's greatest legacy was his successful campaign to abolish the maximum wage, revolutionising the careers and prospects of footballers in the early 1960s and paving the way for the multimillionaire global stars of today. the programme features contributions from former footballers, managers, broadcasters and hill's family. the weather over the last few days has been incredible! i know some people who have traveled away from toronto, heading south to warm weather, only to discover that ontario is so warm it is breaking records. it has been a perfect march break for the kids. they have enjoyed hours in the backyard, at the park and touring the zoo. there has been plenty of time spent playing soccer, sitting on the deck, working in the yard, and grilling! warm weather calls for grilling, relaxing on the deck with a cold beverage in hand. often, when grilling, the focus is on the meat. i will be the first to admit that when i grill, meat is the highlight! but these vegetable skewers are the perfect side to any meat. grilling vegetables creates a sweet caramelized flavour while keeping them summery fresh. also, the balsamic vinaigrette, brushed on after grilling, adds a tang and burst of flavour that beautifully enhances the vegetables. i brush the vinaigrette on after grilling as i find brushing it on while grilling can cause flare ups which can char the skewers. if you make these skewers, make sure you make plenty. people will gobble these up so quick you will wish you made more! you can also use other vegetables including cherry tomatoes, yellow squash, zucchini and more! five political activists in the united arab emirates have been pardoned, a day after they were convicted of insulting the gulf state's rulers. their lawyer, mohammed al-roken, told the associated press the public prosecution had confirmed president khalifa bin zayed al nahyan's pardon. the activists, who include a prominent blogger and an economist, were given prison terms of up to three years on sunday. their case had angered rights groups. the five had been arrested in april, after signing an online petition calling on uae rulers to introduce direct elections and give parliament legislative powers. the current 40-member parliament serves only as an advisory body. its members are either directly appointed by the ruling sheikhs or elected by citizens hand-picked by the rulers to vote. the charges against the five included insulting the country's leadership and undermining national security. the trial was denounced by rights activists as grossly unfair, and the five defendants had been on hunger strike for two weeks in protest at their treatment. on sunday blogger ahmed mansour was given a three-year jail sentence by the state security court in abu dhabi. nasser bin ghaith, an economic professor who was lecturing at paris' sorbonne university in abu dhabi before his arrest, received a two-year sentence, along with hassan ali khamis, fahad salem dalk and ahmed abdul khaleq. "we expect them to come out tonight or tomorrow," a relative of nasser bin ghaith told reuters news agency on monday. the uae comprises seven sheikdoms run by ruling families. several of its gulf neighbours - including bahrain, yemen, oman and saudi arabia - have been rocked by pro-democracy protests inspired by the revolutions in tunisia and egypt. although it is well known that water is essential for human homeostasis and survival, only recently have we begun to understand its role in the maintenance of brain function. herein, we integrate emerging evidence regarding the effects of both dehydration and additional acute water consumption on cognition and mood. current findings in the field suggest that particular cognitive abilities and mood states are positively influenced by water consumption. the impact of dehydration on cognition and mood is particularly relevant for those with poor fluid regulation, such as the elderly and children. we critically review the most recent advances in both behavioural and neuroimaging studies of dehydration and link the findings to the known effects of water on hormonal, neurochemical and vascular functions in an attempt to suggest plausible mechanisms of action. we identify some methodological weaknesses, including inconsistent measurements in cognitive assessment and the lack of objective hydration state measurements as well as gaps in knowledge concerning mediating factors that may influence water intervention effects. finally, we discuss how future research can best elucidate the role of water in the optimal maintenance of brain health and function. shortage of freshwater is a serious problem in many regions worldwide, and is expected to become even more urgent over the next decades as a result of increased demand for food production and adverse effects of climate change. vast water resources in the oceans can only be tapped into if sustainable, energy-efficient technologies for desalination are developed. energization of desalination by sunlight through photosynthetic organisms offers a potential opportunity to exploit biological processes for this purpose. cyanobacterial cultures in particular can generate a large biomass in brackish and seawater, thereby forming a low-salt reservoir within the saline water. the latter could be used as an ion exchanger through manipulation of transport proteins in the cell membrane. in this article, we use the example of biodesalination as a vehicle to review the availability of tools and methods for the exploitation of cyanobacteria in water biotechnology. issues discussed relate to strain selection, environmental factors, genetic manipulation, ion transport, cell-water separation, process design, safety, and public acceptance. at least 100 people are reported to have been killed in an attack by boko haram militants in northern nigeria. local officials said it happened over the past two days and that 100 people were killed in the town of baga. two locals said the insurgents began shooting indiscriminately and burning buildings on tuesday evening in several raids. they said that the militants were targeting the civilian population and that the attacks carried through to yesterday. "they burnt to the ground all the 16 towns and villages including baga, dorn-baga, mile 4, mile 3, kauyen kuros and bunduram," said musa bukar, head of the kukawa local government in borno state. abubakar gamandi, head of borno's fish traders union and a baga native, confirmed the attacks. he said hundreds of people who fled were trapped on islands on lake chad. boko haram has declared a "caliphate" in the zones it controls in northeast nigeria. it is also increasingly active on the borders of niger and cameroon. a woman has been jailed for trolling herself after she unleashed a year of vile abuse at her own facebook account. michelle chapman, 24, from the uk claimed to have suffered from a torrent of sexual taunts that came from members of her own family, the mirror reports. however, it turned out these were all from accounts she had set up herself as part of a yearlong vendetta against her father and new stepmother. more: five ways facebook has changed our lives chapman had fallen out with her in-laws after trying to reunite with the father she had not seen for 21 years. but things didn't go well and after an argument chapman plotted a revenge attack via social media. she began by creating a facebook account for her new stepmother, louise steen, which was used to send abusive messages to her father in an attempt to split them up. more profiles were created for other family members and over the course of the next year she trolled herself, sending messages of a "very unpleasant sexual nature" to her own account. she then contacted police to complain about the abuse, which led to unwitting family members being arrested and warned. chapman's activities were found out when police investigated the matter and found all the facebook accounts in question had been created at her address. "she said that she wanted revenge on her father for matters in the past. she just wanted to make their life hell," prosecutor philip lee said. at a court hearing chapman admitted to committing actions intended to pervert the course of justice and has been jailed for 20 months. it is believed this is the first case of someone in britain being jailed for trolling themselves. she has been handed a restraining order against her victims and banned from having computer equipment. the fbi agents investigating the use of covert webcam-activation software in student laptops in pennsylvania's affluent lower merion school district have alerted a student that they've uncovered 4,404 webcam photographs and 3,978 screenshots taken without his knowledge from his school-issued laptop. the student describes himself as "shocked, humiliated and severely emotionally distressed," and has filed a federal invasion of privacy suit seeking unspecified damages. as part of an fbi investigation and a lawsuit brought by a different student, a judge had contacted the boy's parents informing him of the breach, and invited them to view the pictures. the youth's parents were shown 4,404 webcam photographs and 3,978 screenshots captured with the lower merion school district-issued macbook. the amount of photos represents the largest publicly known number of images secretly recorded in the webcam scandal. a brand new report has appeared online revealing that just cause 2 might be the next games with gold title that will be offered by microsoft in january for free to xbox live gold subscribers. the games with gold initiative has seen some pretty good titles go free for the xbox 360 console over the last few months. now, it seems that microsoft wants to kick things off in 2014 with a bang, as already its japanese online store is proudly displaying that just cause 2 will go free via games with gold. it's expected that the game will go free on january 1 and will remain available until january 16, when another title replaces it. currently, the games with gold free title for this period is shoot many robots. a teenaged boy died after he allegedly poured kerosene on himself and lit it, in an attempt to participate in a television reality show, police said on monday. the boy, a resident of barkas in old city in hyderabad, succumbed to serious burn injuries on sunday at a hospital, they said. the incident took place on april 7 when the boy pulled off the dangerous stunt where he poured kerosene on himself and lit it at some hills at falaknuma and sustained injuries in the process, acp m a bari said, adding the teenager initially took kerosene and sent it out from mouth like flames. he was shifted to a hospital where he succumbed to his injuries yesterday, the acp said. the teenager, a school student, wanted to make a cd of the stunt and send it for selection in a reality show, bari said, adding that his dying declaration was recorded. image caption lamps of this type are used to promote the growth of cannabis plants. heat lamps confiscated by police in raids on cannabis farms will be used to help the grass on the pitch grow at warwickshire county cricket club. west midlands police gave the lamps free of charge to the club to use at their ground in edgbaston, birmingham. the grow lights will be used to heat up the soil and replicate warmer conditions. warwickshire's ground is a venue for international matches, as well as county cricket. image copyright pa image caption the lamps will be used to help keep edgbaston's wicket in prime condition charlie dagnall, a test match special commentator and former warwickshire bowler, said he backed the idea. "if this is like sticking a greenhouse over the pitch and makes it more lively it can only be a good thing," he said. notts county fc already use similar equipment seized by police as lighting rigs on their meadow lane pitch. confiscated heat lamps and power units are also used to warm wildlife at a rescue centre near camberley owned by the queen guitarist brian may. fulham's miserable season continued as they were knocked out of the fa cup in extra time by league one sheffield united. shaun miller's last-minute header in the fourth-round replay helped the blades progress in dramatic style. united shaded the first half, with jamie murphy heading just wide. fulham barely threatened, with bob harris's free-kick going narrowly over for the blades, who left it until the 119th minute to seal victory. magic of the cup before beating fulham, sheffield united had won just one of their last five competitive away games - that win coming in the fa cup third round at aston villa after slumping to the bottom of the premier league table last weekend, the cottagers' misery was extended following a lacklustre display against opponents stuck in the relegation zone two divisions below them. both managers named much-changed sides, with the blades edging a turgid affair early on as john brayford fired narrowly over after picking up a loose ball, before murphy directed a header wide. there was little entertainment to be found after the interval either with harris, who had survived claims for a second booking for a late tackle on josh passley, curling over from a set-piece. the first meeting was drawn 1-1, and it seemed nothing was going to separate the teams as the tie edged towards a penalty shootout - brayford and fulham's pajtim kasami failing in their attempts to break the deadlock in extra time. instead, miller stooped to flick in harry maguire's towering header from a corner in the final seconds to embarrass the cottagers and secure nigel clough's side a meeting with preston north end or nottingham forest in the next round. mohammed al-sulami jeddah: a maritime code aimed at reducing piracy has been expanded to include other crimes such as human trafficking, according to the organizers of a meeting held in jeddah on thursday. attendees of the meeting approved a series of amendments to the djibouti code of conduct, which concerns the repression of piracy and armed robbery against ships in the western indian ocean and the gulf of aden, according to a press statement. the conference for signatory countries of the djibouti code of conduct saw approvals for expanding the terms of reference of the code to ensure greater maritime safety and anti-piracy efforts, as well as protection against armed robbery and cross-border organized crime in the maritime field. it also provides greater protection relating to arms, drugs, and offenses concerning wildlife, crude oil and human trafficking. the expanded terms also include illegitimate acts, such as disposal of toxic waste in the sea, illegal fishing and maritime terrorism, which pose increasing threats to safety and security of ships and marine facilities. the new code of conduct focuses on a number of additional measures to enhance maritime security, including developing national strategies for private maritime security and policies, with an emphasis on enhancing the capacity and readiness of signatory countries. the agreement includes updated guidelines for seizure and confiscation of assets and property obtained from maritime crimes. the news came during the closing session of the conference at the prince mohammed bin naif academy of marine sciences and security studies. the djibouti code of conduct was adopted on jan. 29, 2009 by representatives of djibouti, ethiopia, kenya, madagascar, maldives, seychelles, somalia, tanzania and yemen. comoros, egypt, eritrea, jordan, mauritius, mozambique, oman, saudi arabia, south africa, sudan and the uae have since signed. hillary clinton hillary diane rodham clintonread: cohen testimony alleges trump knew stone talked with wikileaks about dnc emails county gop in minnesota shares image comparing sanders to hitler holder: 'time to make the electoral college a vestige of the past' more saw a small bump in support following the democratic national convention last week, a poll released sunday shows. advertisement the cbs news battleground tracker poll found clinton, the democratic presidential nominee, has 43 percent support in 11 battleground states, while gop nominee donald trump donald john trumpread: cohen testimony alleges trump knew stone talked with wikileaks about dnc emails trump urges north korea to denuclearize ahead of summit venezuela's maduro says he fears 'bad' people around trump more has 41 percent support. in the same poll last week, trump led clinton 42 percent to 41 percent. clinton's gains came from democrats who had been undecided before the convention. virtually no one is going back and forth between trump and clinton. forty percent of those surveyed said they liked how democrats described the state of america today during convention speeches, according to the poll, while 45 percent disliked it. voters said they would have liked to have heard more about the economy, and 54 percent said they didn't hear enough about changing washington. the poll was conducted from july 29 to 30 among 2,211 registered voters in 11 battleground states: colorado, florida, iowa, michigan, north carolina, new hampshire, nevada, ohio, pennsylvania, virginia and wisconsin. the political power of economic ideas: protectionism in turn of the century america peter h. bent abstract one of the main economic debates taking place in late-nineteenth and early-twentieth-century america was between supporters of protectionism and advocates of free-trade policies. protectionists won this debate, as the 1897 dingley tariff raised tariff rates to record highs. an analysis of this outcome highlights the overlapping interests of republican politicians and business groups. both of these groups endorsed particular economic arguments in favour of protectionism. contemporary studies by academic economists informed the debates surrounding protectionist policies at this time, and also analysed the impacts of these policies. evidence from politicians, business owners, and economists provides a broad view of who favoured protectionist policies in turn-of-the-century america. this analysis also focuses on how the impacts of these policies were studied and presented in contemporary academic and public discourse.
